The Project Gutenberg EBook of Kellogg's Great Crops of Strawberries, by 
R. M. Kellogg Co.

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Kellogg's Great Crops of Strawberries
       And How to Grow Them The Kellogg Way

Author: R. M. Kellogg Co.

Release Date: May 9, 2018 [EBook #57123]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STRAWBERRIES ***




Produced by MFR, Harry Lamé and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)









  Transcriber’s Notes

  ^{text} represents superscript text, _text_ and =text= represent text
  printed in italics and in bold face, respectively. Small capitals have
  been changed to ALL CAPITALS.

  More Transcriber’s Notes may be found at the end of this text.




  KELLOGG’S
  _Great Crops of_
  STRAWBERRIES
  _And How to Grow Them_
  THE KELLOGG WAY

  [Illustration: _KELLOGG’S DELICIOUS_
  “_The Strawberry That Satisfies_”]

  1922

  [Illustration: THOROUGHBRED PEDIGREE
  TRADE MARK
  STRAWBERRY PLANTS]

  [Illustration: _A “Delicious” Shortcake_]

  R. M. KELLOGG CO.
  THREE RIVERS, MICH.




Our Credentials


[Illustration: _One of the strongest Banks in Michigan vouches for our
reliability_]

[Illustration]

  GEO. F. WOLF, PRESIDENT
  F. E. BEATTY, VICE PRES.
  H. C. KAAS, CASHIER
  W. WATERS, JR., ASST. CASHIER
  C. A. DENTZLER, ASST. CASHIER

  FIRST STATE SAVINGS BANK

  CAPITAL AND SURPLUS $100,000.00

  THREE RIVERS, MICH.

  To Whom it May Concern:

  We are personally acquainted with the officers and management of R. M.
  Kellogg Company of Three Rivers, Mich., and take pleasure in endorsing
  their ideals and business methods as the very highest.

  Mr. F. E. Beatty, President and General Manager, is Vice President and
  Chairman of the Board of Directors of this Bank and in our many
  intimate business relations he has stood out conspicuously as a man of
  strict integrity. It is but a natural consequence that under his
  capable, efficient management, R. M. Kellogg Company has become the
  world’s largest exclusive strawberry plant nursery.

  We unhesitatingly recommend this Company to any prospective buyer of
  strawberry plants with assurance of fair, courteous treatment also
  that Kellogg Pedigree Plants will be found exactly as represented.

  FIRST STATE SAVINGS BANK

  [Illustration: Geo. F. Wolf]

  President


Your Assurance of Vigorous, Healthy Plants

MICHIGAN CERTIFICATE OF NURSERY INSPECTION

  This is to certify that I have examined the nursery stock of R. M.
  Kellogg Co., Three Rivers, Mich., and find it apparently free from
  dangerous insects and dangerously contagious tree and plant diseases.

  L. R. TAFT, State Inspector of Nurseries and Orchards.

  (_NOTE--A copy of this Certificate of Inspection accompanies every
  shipment of Kellogg Pedigree Plants. We also attach State Certificate
  or Permit to conform to requirements of each State._)


  This entire book is fully protected by U. S. Copyright. Unauthorized
  use of any of the illustrations or text contained herein constitutes
  an infringement which will be vigorously prosecuted.

  R. M. KELLOGG CO.




[Illustration: KELLOGG’S GREAT CROPS OF STRAWBERRIES _and_ HOW _to_ GROW
THEM _the_ KELLOGG WAY]

R.M.KELLOGG CO. [Illustration] THREE RIVERS, MICH.




  Success
  Demands
  Progress!

[Illustration: F. E. BEATTY, President]


Characteristic of the mighty oak has been the development and growth of
our Company, the origin of which dates back through many years to a
modest beginning having as its inception, a firm belief in the World’s
demand for bigger crops of better strawberries.

A fervent application of Nature’s inevitable law,--that improvement both
in plant and fruit results from continued selection of the strong and
elimination of the unfit,--has been largely responsible in winning for
Kellogg Pedigree Plants their world-wide reputation for strength, vigor,
hardiness and productiveness. It is due to their exceptional merits and
the fact that we have followed religiously the Golden Rule in every
business transaction, that we now occupy our enviable position as the
World’s largest and most successful exclusive strawberry plant breeders.

For many years we have been forging ahead with a steady, healthy
growth--not of the mushroom type which springs up over night and withers
as quickly,--but rather like the sturdy oak, capable of enduring the
elements and adversities of time. With this growth has come also a
remarkable degree of success and prosperity. This is of great
significance to every present or prospective strawberry grower because
the success of any business firm invariably is but a reflection of the
success of its customers.

It is but natural that I am proud of our record of achievement and of
the success of our customers. And yet I fully realize there is no
standing still--that _=success demands progress=_ and it is this
realization that constantly spurs me on to greater aspirations. The
spirit of progression prevails throughout our entire organization, but
most noticeably perhaps in our experimental and research work as applied
both to culture and varieties.

I am ever on the alert for new and improved methods leading to greater
efficiency. New varieties and seedlings are under continual test in our
experimental beds. Many disqualify and are rejected to every one which
proves worthy of adoption and introduction. Discouragement and obstacles
are ever present. To overcome them requires unlimited perseverance,
determination, energy and above all, a confidence born of the knowledge
that we are looked up to and depended upon to render the real,
worthwhile service so necessary to the success of strawberry growers
everywhere.

But as every cloud has its silver lining, there is also the bright and
pleasant side in our work for occasionally our efforts are rewarded with
success.

Does it pay? Yes, our customers agree with me that it does. Who, for
instance, can place an intelligent estimate of value upon such
universally popular varieties as our Kellogg’s Premier, Dr. Burrill,
Magic Gem, Kellogg’s Prize, Kellogg’s Big Late, Kellogg’s Big Wonder and
Sionilli, all of which are our own introductions representing years of
effort and expense?

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s Delicious_

_The Strawberry That Satisfies_]

[Illustration: KELLOGG’S MARVEL

_The MARVEL of BEAUTY and PRODUCTIVENESS_]

It is my pleasure this year to introduce two wonderful new varieties,
Kellogg’s Marvel, (the Marvel of Beauty and Productiveness) and
Kellogg’s Delicious, (the Strawberry that Satisfies), both destined to
become leaders as soon as growers learn of their marvelous superiority.
We have tested them thoroughly for several years and never have known
their equal in any other varieties of their respective seasons.

These varieties are described on Pages 22 and 23 and illustrated
elsewhere in this book, but words and pictures cannot do them justice.
They must be grown to be appreciated and I hope you will set as many
plants as possible of either or both of these new varieties which
promise a pleasant revelation at fruiting time and a clearer
understanding why our business enjoys such unparalleled success.

Notwithstanding this success however, I am not satisfied to lean on our
past reputation as it is not my disposition to let good enough alone.

Although today we are standing on the highest pinnacle of success,
tomorrow will bring a vision of something higher. It is my purpose to
continue constantly on our upward progress, improving over the past
whenever and wherever possible because _=our customers place their
confidence in us and their success as well as our success demands
progress=_.

  Sincerely yours,

  [Illustration: Signature F. E. Beatty]

  President.

P. S.--We thoroughly enjoy visitors and I hope everyone who reads this
book will accept this as a personal invitation from me to visit us. I
want to show you the wonderful work we are doing; to convince you that
our every argument in favor of Kellogg Pedigree Plants is as sound as
the proverbial dollar. You will be entertained as our guests and at our
expense while here.

You will find us just common folks working hand-in-hand with Nature.
When you leave here after your visit we’ll be just like old personal
acquaintances and, like all others who have visited our farm, you’ll be
glad you came and want to come again.

  F. E. B.




A Glimpse Into Our Organization


Page 7 shows our officers and department heads. We employ as many as one
hundred fifty people during our busy season and from Mr. Beatty our
President and General Manager, right through to our janitor, we are
first-name acquaintances. Some of our employes have been with us more
than twenty-five years.

Our policy of treating employes as men and brothers has resulted in a
corps of loyal, industrious and highly capable department heads and
employes, making our organization an ideal of efficiency.

The loyalty of our employes was given forcible expression during recent
years when labor difficulties were rife and agitation and unrest seemed
the natural state of affairs. Throughout this period when so many firms
found it difficult to operate with any degree of satisfaction, our
operations were continued unhampered with no indication of labor
trouble. This shows the keen loyalty and respect we merit from those who
are closely associated with our organization and who consequently know
us most intimately.

Conspicuous in our every department is unity of purpose. We are working
hand-in-hand, closely co-operating in every way to furnish Kellogg
customers with the best plants that can be produced at the lowest
possible prices consistent with high quality and to render every service
necessary to their complete success with Kellogg strawberries.

[Illustration:

  J.S. COX
  1^{ST} VICE PRES. & PACKING HOUSE MGR.

  R.M. KELLOGG
  FOUNDER

  C.J. BEATTY
  2^{ND} VICE PRES. & SUPERVISOR CANNING
  AND PRESERVING INVESTIGATIONS

  E.W. HANLEY
  SECRETARY & ADVERTISING MGR.

  F.E. BEATTY
  PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER

  S.F. BEATTY
  TREASURER & OFFICE MANAGER

  DAVID EVANS
  SUPT. PLANTING & HOEING

  CORA SKINNER
  CHIEF ACCOUNTANT

  CHARLES WALTER
  SUPT. SOIL PREPARATION

  HARRY SMITH
  MGR. TRACTOR DEPARTMENT

  H.W. OSBORNE
  CHIEF MECHANIC

  JESSE EVANS
  OVERSEER BUILDINGS & GROUNDS]

[Illustration: _A Kellogg Everbearing Plant in Full Fruit_

PHOTOGRAPHED OCTOBER 15^{TH}]

[Illustration: _PROGRESSIVE_

_The Universal Everbearer_]




Rev. J. R. Reasoner, Originator of the World-Famed Senator Dunlap and
Dr. Burrill Varieties, Endorses Kellogg Statements and Methods

[Illustration: J. R. REASONER

Originator of Senator Dunlap and Dr. Burrill]


The following tribute from Rev. J. R. Reasoner, veteran strawberry
grower and originator of Senator Dunlap and Dr. Burrill, two of the most
popular varieties ever introduced--(each the result of many years of
untiring effort in scientific crossing and breeding)--should be of
special significance to every one who grows or contemplates growing
strawberries. Dr. Reasoner is of quiet, unassuming disposition. To know
is to love, respect and admire this grand old gentleman to whom honor
and right are paramount. He has been acquainted with us for years and
his selection of our Company to present to the world Dr. Burrill, the
Million Dollar Strawberry, was a substantial expression of the tribute
presented below. Read his letter:

  URBANA, ILL., August 10, 1921.

  R. M. KELLOGG CO.,
  Three Rivers, Mich.

  Gentlemen:

  For many years I have read with considerable interest “Great Crops of
  Strawberries and How to Grow Them” and have been very favorably
  impressed with your fair, honest descriptions of varieties and the
  scientific methods under which Kellogg Pedigree Plants are produced.
  Your claims of superiority impress me as being fully justified.

  Your efforts in improving the strawberry, stimulating its culture and
  especially in encouraging the home strawberry garden are highly
  commendable. I am convinced that you are doing a wonderful work and
  that as plant breeders, you rank among the country’s great
  benefactors.

  If I were twenty-five years younger and in good health, I would again
  engage in plant breeding but when a fellow reaches my age, he loses
  his recuperative forces.

  My Senator Dunlap and Dr. Burrill were not financial successes to me
  counting the years of labor required to perfect them, but the
  satisfaction that they have been of such great benefit to humanity is
  ample compensation to me.

  You have my best wishes for abundant success which you so fully
  deserve and I hope that you may realize your largest expectations.

[Illustration: Fraternally Yours

J R Reasoner]


Never have we known of a single instance in which a visit here failed to
convince that everything is just as we represent or even better. The
following is an extract from a letter written us by one of the officials
of the Michigan Horticultural Department upon receiving our catalog:

“I have read your new catalog with much interest. It not only should
attract present and prospective strawberry growers but its illustrations
and descriptions give a very accurate idea of your different varieties
as I have seen them growing on the Kellogg Farm.”




Kellogg Pedigree Plants and How They Are Produced


A juicy, tender sirloin costs more than a chuck steak; silver although
it glitters is not as valuable as gold and you would expect to pay more
for a wool garment than one of a lower grade fabric.

These comparisons emphasize the fact that any article of superior
quality--whether food, clothing, luxury, or any commodity--even though
sold at a higher price, invariably proves the best and most economical
investment.

Ranking as ‘top-notchers’ in every test, dependable as Mother Nature
herself and yielding berries of a quality unsurpassed in delicious
flavor and smooth texture by anything in the fruit or vegetable kingdom,
it is not surprising that Kellogg Pedigree Plants are the choice of such
a vast majority of strawberry growers. Many of these growers too are
shrewd, seasoned business men and women whose intimate contact with
industry has taught them the folly of seeking bargains and the wisdom in
investing only where quality is assured. Theirs is indeed a wise
discrimination in selecting Kellogg Pedigree Plants for nowhere is the
lack or presence of quality more convincingly shown than in strawberry
plants at fruiting time.

We of course claim superiority for Kellogg Pedigree Plants. This you
would naturally expect and our strongest claims would count for naught
were they not verified by thousands who know and grow them. Throughout
this book we have reproduced reports selected at random as
representative of many which have come to us from growers whose interest
in our plants exists merely because they have found them in every way
the most profitable and desirable. If better plants were to be had they
would readily plant and endorse them.


Reasons for Superiority

For every result there must be a corresponding cause. We have referred
to the superior qualities of Kellogg Pedigree Plants. Now we are going
to explain the reasons why these plants are superior both in plant
growth and berry production.


First Step in Crop Rotation

Follow us please through our regular process of crop rotation and soil
preparation beginning just as we have finished digging and shipping a
crop of Kellogg Pedigree Plants in May.

The ground on which these plants were grown is first plowed deeply
(eight to nine inches) after which it is harrowed repeatedly both with
spring tooth and disc. Following this it is packed with roller and the
result is a perfect seed bed thoroughly pulverized the full depth of
plowing. All vegetation which remained at the time of plowing has been
cut up and crushed so as to decay rapidly.

The ground is then seeded to alfalfa and remains in this crop for three
years. The first two years it is cut for hay. The third year the first
crop is mowed and allowed to remain on the field as a mulch just as it
falls from the mower blade. The second growth comes up through this
mulch and the entire crop is then plowed under.

[Illustration: Root of two-months-old legume plant showing numerous
bacteria nodules. These vary in size, shape and number according to the
age of the plant.]


Value of Legumes

Alfalfa is a legume or nitrogen gathering plant. An examination of the
roots of leguminous plants reveals numerous bacteria nodules which vary
in size, shape and number according to the kind and age of the plant. A
very close relation has been found to exist between leguminous plants
and the bacteria existing within these nodules. The plant furnishes the
nourishment required by the bacteria while the bacteria in turn draw
nitrogen from the air and render it available for the use of the plant.
Nitrogen is essential to plant life. The plowing under and resulting
decay of legume plants releases vast quantities of nitrogen into the
soil where it may be absorbed and assimilated by succeeding crops.

The accompanying illustration shows the nodule development on the roots
of a two-months-old legume plant.


Other Rotation Crops

Following the alfalfa, we sow a mixture of rye and vetch which is plowed
under when the rye is in head and the vetch in bloom as at this time the
vetch (which also is a legume) attains its greatest development of
nitrogen nodules and the rye its greatest humus value. After this has
been incorporated with the soil and a pulverized seed bed formed as
before, it is seeded to a mixture of cow-peas and buckwheat.

[Illustration: OPERATIONS _and_ EQUIPMENT EMPLOYED _in_ PRODUCING
KELLOGG PEDIGREE PLANTS

1 HARVESTING ALFALFA HAY

2 RYE AND VETCH

3 ROLLING DOWN & DISCING

4 PLOWING IT UNDER

5 COWPEAS & BUCKWHEAT

6 PLOWING IT UNDER

7 HARROWING, ROLLING & SEEDING TO OATS

8 SHREDDING MANURE

9 HOEING, CULTIVATING & FERTILIZING

10 HOEING PLANTS

11 REMOVING BLOSSOMS

12 SPRAYING

13 IRRIGATING

14 IRRIGATION PUMPING STATION

15 GARAGE & MACHINE SHOP SHOWING TRACTORS & TRUCKS

16 MULCHING FOR WINTER

17 PACKING HOUSE WHERE PLANTS ARE COUNTED, PRUNED & PACKED FOR SHIPMENT

18 A KELLOGG STRAWBERRY GARDEN PACKED FOR SHIPMENT]

The resulting growth seems almost magic for in a few weeks both the
buckwheat and cow-peas are in bloom and the growth becomes so rank and
dense that it is difficult if not actually impossible to progress far
into the field afoot. Just before the seed ripens this growth is rolled
down, cut up with disc and plowed under. The buckwheat adds humus and
the cow-peas, (another legume), both humus and additional nitrogen.
After this has been thoroughly worked into the soil and a perfect
seed-bed again formed fall has arrived and the ground is seeded to oats.


The Final Rotation Crop

Oats serves a double purpose;--provides to a certain extent a winter
protection against the porosity caused by alternate freezing and thawing
and its decay renders the soil mellow and easily worked.

During the winter a top dressing of stable manure is applied at the rate
of fifteen tons per acre and the oats and manure are plowed under just
as early as the soil can be worked the following spring. The manure
furnishes nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus in quantities which with
that already furnished by the rotation crops, makes a properly balanced
plant food.

Again it is worked and with spring tooth and disc harrows and rolled
until it forms a pulverized seed-bed and after being marked into rows
and cross marked, it is again ready for Kellogg Pedigree Plants.


We Practice and Recommend Spring Planting

We practice what we preach by setting our plants in the spring
exclusively (during April or May) as we have found through many years of
experience that spring setting gives surest results in the North. In the
Southern States plants may be set with success either in the spring or
fall.


Kellogg Pedigree Plants,--Yearlings

Every spring the fields which have just produced plants are plowed at
the close of our shipping season and put through our crop rotation
process. This thoroughly renovates the soil and supplies in proper
proportions nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, the essential elements
of plant food together with an abundance of humus, the medium through
which plants feed. It is what might be termed a regenerative process
because it actually renews or rebuilds the soil.

It is impossible to find any plants on the Kellogg farm more than one
year old except in our testing and experimental beds, and the mother
plants in our propagating fields. In digging plants for shipment all
mother plants are thrown out. Only their offspring,--strong, sturdy,
young runner plants, are used in filling orders. This assures Kellogg
customers young blood, full of life and stamina. When such plants are
set in the customer’s field or garden, growth is rapid and vigorous.

[Illustration: Kellogg Pedigree runner plant pruned and ready for
packing. Vigorous, heavily rooted one-year-old plants of this type are
responsible for the universal success of Kellogg customers.]


Answering an Appeal for Moisture “When Nature Refuses”

During periods of drouth, our Skinner Irrigation System is relied upon
as crop insurance. It’s value is not limited to furnishing moisture to
Kellogg Pedigree Plants alone for it is just as frequently used in
supplying moisture to our rotation crops.

Like the good Samaritan of Sacred History, it brings water from the
nearby stream and applies it soothingly to the thirsty plants in the
form of gentle, mist-like, refreshing rain which thoroughly saturates
the ground to their very root tips. If drouth prevails at seeding time,
its near-natural-rainfall insures prompt germination of seed which is
necessary to a successful crop. It likewise is depended upon to furnish
an uninterrupted supply of moisture ‘whenever Nature refuses’. Often it
is the only means of saving the crop.

This system enables us to furnish Kellogg Pedigree Plants with moisture
throughout the growing season, insuring unhampered and unchecked
development both of plant and root systems.

With this dependable substitute for natural rainfall, the intense and
prolonged drouth of 1921 (the most serious in many years) was not the
serious matter with us which it otherwise would have been.

There is also another way in which our Skinner Irrigation System serves
our customers, for it gives us an increased production of thousands of
plants per acre. As the size of our plant crop bears a direct relation
to the prices of Kellogg Pedigree Plants, you can readily see that this
increased production is an important factor in enabling us to quote the
low prices given on Page 66 of this book.


Hoeing, Cultivating and Removing Blossoms

Our propagating fields are hoed and cultivated repeatedly during the
growing season and all blossoms are removed as fast as they appear. We
remove the blossoms from the everbearers just as late as we possibly
can, but during the fall they blossom so profusely that this would
require a small army. At that time however, they are firmly established
and have a fully developed root and crown system and are therefore not
unfavorably affected by these late blossoms and the few berries which
develop.


Spraying

Dangerous insects and dangerously contagious plant diseases are
strangers on the Kellogg farm. As precaution against any possible
attacks by pests however, Kellogg Pedigree Plants are sprayed frequently
during the growing season with Bordeaux mixture, arsenate of lead and
lime-sulphur. This prevents the possibility of contamination of any
nature.


Mulching

Our plants are mulched for winter to the extent that we are able to
obtain material for mulching. The mulching is applied after the first
heavy freezing in the winter. This protects the ground against alternate
freezing and thawing. The mulching is removed in the spring before the
plants are dug.


Digging

Every Kellogg Plant is freshly dug at time of shipment in the spring and
practically every plant is packed and on the way to the customer within
twenty-four hours after it is dug. We never dig plants in the fall and
hold them in storage over winter for spring shipment as we do not
believe in this practice and do not have any storage facilities of this
nature.


Packing for Shipment

In packing Kellogg Pedigree Plants for shipment, we use only the highest
grade sphagnum moss containing a proper amount of moisture. Larger
orders are packed in wooden crates. Smaller orders are either wrapped in
heavy moisture-proof paper or packed in strong corrugated cartons. Our
packing methods are the most scientific and our containers the highest
quality we can obtain.

Kellogg Pedigree Plants are tied into uniform bunches of 25 plants, each
bunch containing a label bearing the name of the variety. We never
furnish less than 25 plants of any variety, nor can we furnish plants
except in exact multiples of 25; that is,--25, 50, 75, 100 and so on. By
adopting this uniform size, our counting and bunching department is able
to develop the highest efficiency.


Resulting Superiority

A striking contrast which tells more forcibly than words the value of
our intensive soil preparation, cultural and packing methods is shown by
comparing the health, vigor and productiveness of Kellogg Pedigree
Plants with that of common plants. Such comparison proves conclusively
that Kellogg Pedigree Plants are far superior to the ordinary.

Their stored up vitality enables them to survive for a long period in
transit. Like storage batteries they are charged with energy which gives
them a running start in the right direction.

If you feel tempted to set ordinary plants because they may be purchased
at a trifle lower price, stop and ask yourself which eventually will be
the more desirable--a big crop of fancy delicious berries such as
Kellogg Pedigree Plants produce, or a small inferior crop with the
satisfaction (if it may be called such) that the plants were a trifle
lower in price.

Look ahead to fruiting time when this question may become a reality and
let your better judgment influence you in placing your order for plants.


  OUR MISTAKES

  To deny making mistakes is a frank acknowledgment of retrogression or
  a movement toward ultimate failure. Yes, we make mistakes occasionally
  but what’s more, we make them serve as stepping stones to successful
  achievement rather than permitting them to remain as stumbling blocks
  to retard our progress.

  We were gratified at the following voluntary tribute expressed in our
  office one day last summer by a traveling salesman who, although
  having called on us many times, had not succeeded in securing our
  order. In the course of his conversation he remarked: “There’s one
  thing I like about you people and that is your perfect frankness and
  the fact that you are just as ready to admit your mistakes as to boast
  of your achievements.”

  While we make as few mistakes as possible, we can truthfully say that
  they result eventually to the interest of our customers as practically
  all are made and discovered in our testing and experimental plots. Any
  new method, plan or variety which emerges therefrom virtually has
  undergone a test of fire and more than made good.

  In other words we never pass anything on to our customers until we
  have developed it beyond the experimental stage to a point where its
  value is unquestioned. In this way we constantly safeguard the
  interests of those who place their confidence in Kellogg Pedigree
  Plants and our Company.

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s_ PREMIER THE PRIZE-WINNER AND MONEY-MAKER]

[Illustration: _Senator Dunlap_ _THE WORLD-WIDE FAVORITE_]




Dollars and Sense in Setting Kellogg Pedigree Plants


A question which frequently arises in the mind of the prospective
strawberry grower is whether there actually is enough difference in
plants to justify the difference in the prices quoted by different plant
growers.

If you were to install some modern convenience in your home, would you
not be influenced in your selection largely by the service you could
reasonably expect from it based on its past reputation? You will agree
this would be the logical basis of selection.

It also should be the essential consideration in ordering strawberry
plants, as you are to depend upon them for a service just as distinct in
terms of quality and quantity of berries produced.

Have you ever considered the very slight relation of “price” to “cost,”
also how frequently the word “cost” is misused? An article purchased at
a low price often is referred to as being “cheap” when eventually it may
prove far more costly than a higher priced article of better quality.

Don’t be deceived into believing that low price represents real economy.
There are many factors in addition to price which go to make up ultimate
cost and low price very often indicates “cheap quality” resulting
invariably in “high cost.”

The one satisfactory way to reconcile “cost” and “price” is to be
absolutely sure that the price you pay enables the producer to embody
quality in the article.

The following comparison furnishes an intelligent application of the
question of economy in the purchase of strawberry plants:

  Let us assume that you have a strawberry patch consisting of 2,000
  plants divided into two sections, each composed of an equal number of
  plants of the same varieties. One section is composed of “cheap”
  plants. You know nothing about the fruiting reputation of their
  ancestors nor the conditions under which these plants were produced.
  In fact, for all you know they may have been taken from a fruiting
  bed. You simply know that they are strawberry plants and that you
  obtained them at a low price.

  The other section is set to Kellogg Pedigree Plants for which of
  course you paid a higher price. Perhaps you felt that you were unwise
  in paying the difference as there may be no visible difference in
  appearance.

  At fruiting time however, when each section tells its own story, you
  will find that the “cheap” plants will have absolutely no argument to
  offer in their defense as the Kellogg Pedigree Plants will far
  outyield them and the berries will be of much higher quality.

  At the close of the fruiting season you’ll more fully appreciate the
  difference in “cost.” The “cheap” plants require setting, feeding,
  hoeing, cultivating and lodging (use of your ground) to the same
  extent as others. In return you have found them loafers while the
  plants which at first seemed expensive were constantly on the job at
  fruiting time producing loads of big fancy berries which found a ready
  market at profitable prices.

  This comparison is being made right along by thousands who are thus
  brought to a fuller, stronger realization of the folly in being
  influenced to set “cheap” strawberry plants.

  To the thinking person, it is a self-evident fact that Kellogg
  Pedigree Plants which are bred in conformity with Nature’s laws up to
  the highest possible standards, must be far more profitable and
  desirable than plants produced to meet a certain low price.

  Kellogg Pedigree Plants although a trifle higher in price, really
  don’t “cost” as much as ordinary plants because their higher
  productiveness and better quality berries insures additional returns
  which justify an expenditure of many times the difference in “price.”

This is not an isolated comparison but applies in every case where the
product is measured in definite terms. For example, suppose you have a
cow which gives twenty quarts of milk having a high butter test and your
neighbor one which produces but half this quantity having a lower test.
It wouldn’t take you long to decide that your cow, even at double the
price of your neighbor’s would be the more profitable.

It’s quite true that you can obtain plants from various sources, often
at prices much lower than we can possibly quote. Kellogg Pedigree Plants
however are not grown to meet such competition. They are produced just
as good as human understanding of science will permit. As explained on
Pages 11 to 15 inclusive, everything necessary in the way of plant food,
moisture, cultivation, also protection against insects and disease, is
furnished just when and as required to insure the most healthy, vigorous
growth and development both of plant and fruit systems.

We never make up our price-list until late in the fall when all
requirements have been fully supplied and the plants have snuggled down
for their winter nap. Prices then are based on the size of the crop,
cost of producing, plus the small profit to which we are entitled.

If you grow or intend growing strawberries either to supply your own
home or for profit, remember; the use of ground, cost of labor,
fertilizers, etc., is the same whether you set plants of unknown
fruiting qualities or Kellogg Pedigree Plants which are absolutely
dependable for crops and profits. The strain of plants you set is a big
factor in determining your results at the close of the fruiting season.


Kellogg’s Free Service

Even if you don’t know the first thing about strawberry growing, you can
grow Kellogg strawberries successfully right from the start by following
the instructions given on Pages 47 to 58 inclusive.

And should you encounter individual problems in your strawberry work, a
letter to Kellogg’s Free Service Department will bring you reliable
advice quickly whenever you find it necessary to ask for information.
This service is ABSOLUTELY FREE.

So don’t let lack of experience prevent your enjoying Kellogg
strawberries to the full. If you never have grown them, resolve right
now to begin this year and as a final caution:--Send us your order early
to avoid the disappointment which invariably results from delay in
ordering until our plants are all sold.


Kellogg Pedigree Plants Represent the Greatest Plant Value per Dollar
because They Produce the Greatest Dollar Value per Plant

  “The heavy frosts late this spring killed about all the fruit in this
  vicinity but my strawberry patch resisted the frost and produced a
  very satisfactory crop. The patch which measures only 30 x 45 feet
  yielded 172 quarts of which we kept record and besides, the children
  were in the patch frequently and ate all they wanted. Several friends
  whose berries were ruined by the frosts couldn’t understand why my
  patch did so well and I told them where I got the plants and advised
  them to set Kellogg Pedigree Plants if they want to be sure of a berry
  crop.”

  J. T. COUNTS, West Virginia.

  “The Kellogg Pedigree Plants I received from you last spring were
  grown hill system and today I have the finest strawberry patch I ever
  have seen. One strawberry grower who has seen my patch says I will
  have an average of two quarts of berries per plant from the entire
  patch.”

  F. J. DOLBY, Ohio.

  “From 600 Kellogg Pedigree Plants, we sold 564 quarts of berries this
  year and in addition, used a great many ourselves. Not a quart was
  sold for less than 30 cents. They certainly were fine berries and
  everyone who saw the patch remarked at the beauty of the berries and
  such unusual productiveness.”

  MRS. ARTHUR SMITH, New York.

  “From one-twentieth of an acre of Kellogg Pedigree Plants, I picked
  432 quarts of the finest strawberries we ever have seen. This is at
  the rate of nearly 9,000 quarts per acre and if it isn’t ‘going some,’
  I don’t know what would be considered a big crop.”

  JAMES M. REEDS, Indiana.

  “Kellogg Pedigree Plants are the best I have ever received or seen. I
  get 40 cents per quart for all the berries I care to sell.”

  MRS. L. B. BROZELTON, New Mexico.

  “My Kellogg Pedigree Plants have produced an excellent crop of fancy
  berries this season which I sold at 30 and 35 cents per quart. As this
  was a new venture, I certainly am well pleased with results. By
  growing Kellogg Strawberries the Kellogg Way anyone can meet with
  success.”

  H. F. WEATHERHEAD, Vermont.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Two varieties you can absolutely bank upon:--Kellogg’s Marvel, (The
  Marvel of Beauty and Productiveness), and Kellogg’s Delicious, (The
  Strawberry That Satisfies). Read their descriptions on Pages 22 and
  23.

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s Delicious Shortcake_]

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s Delicious_

_The Strawberry That Satisfies_]




Descriptions of Standard Varieties

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s Delicious_

_The Strawberry That Satisfies_

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engravings see Front Cover also Pages 4, 20 and 21)]


There is perhaps no more difficult feature connected with the
introduction of a new variety than the selection of an appropriate and
suggestive name.

We might have named this new origination “Productive” because it is such
a wonderful producer. In fact, it is really wonderful in so many ways
that “Wonderful” also would have been an appropriate name, yet neither
were sufficiently expressive.

This wonderful new mid-season bi-sexual variety which we are offering
this year for the first time, is really self-named and it gives us great
pleasure to introduce it to you as Kellogg’s Delicious, (The Strawberry
That Satisfies).

Dee-licious! Unconsciously,--almost involuntarily, a taste of its
berries compels this exclamation for never have you tasted anything more
lastingly delicious.

We began testing Kellogg’s Delicious several years ago. Its wonderful
productiveness and the supremely delicious flavor of its berries
impressed us so favorably that we immediately communicated with the
originators, asking for a full and complete description of the variety
as it grew and fruited with them. To our satisfaction, they informed us
that their experience was practically identical with ours.

Kellogg’s Delicious is the result of scientific crossing and breeding.
It was originated by Travis Brothers, Cleveland, N. Y. and their
description of this variety is so true to life as it has grown and
fruited with us, that we are presenting it with our stamp of approval:

[Illustration: You too, can grow big, fancy, “_KELLOGG’S DELICIOUS_”
Strawberries. It’s easy, profitable and lots of fun. Try it and become
convinced.]

  “_Kellogg’s Delicious is the most promising mid-season bi-sexual
  strawberry grown today. It thrives in practically all soils and
  climates. The plants are vigorous and healthy and root very deeply.
  Foliage is beautiful dark green and exceptionally resistant to leaf
  spot. It is enormously productive and the berries of the last picking
  are nearly as large as the first. Even in poor soil it will produce a
  large crop of good sized berries. Berries are uniformly large and
  fancy, dark red throughout from surface to center and exceedingly easy
  to pick and hull. They are produced in large clusters on strong,
  sturdy fruit stalks. Their flavor is delicious beyond description,
  hence its name._

  _You cannot recommend Kellogg’s Delicious too highly as its
  performance more than justifies your most eloquent endorsement._”

We have thoroughly tested Kellogg’s Delicious for several seasons and
now are offering it to our customers with the full assurance that it
will produce berries of more delicious quality than any other variety of
its season and that it is not exceeded in productiveness by any other
mid-season variety.

The commercial grower will find it highly profitable because its berries
are large and firm and ship and carry splendidly. It also is one of the
very choicest and most economical varieties for the home garden as its
berries are so sweet, mild and delicious that they are thoroughly
relished as dessert even when served with little or no sugar.

Basing our opinion on its performance with us and with the originator
under conditions entirely dissimilar, we have the strongest assurance
that this is destined to become one of the world’s most popular and most
widely grown varieties.

In setting Kellogg’s Delicious, you are assured strong, vigorous plants
and big crops of fancy, delicious berries and when it begins fruiting in
your own field or garden you’ll say, “Delicious, I’m glad I met you.”

There is sure to be an overwhelming demand for plants of this variety.
We cannot too strongly advise that you order early. Delay will probably
result in your order reaching us after these plants are all sold. Avoid
this disappointing experience by sending us your order as early as
possible.

For prices of Kellogg’s Delicious plants see Page 66, column 4.


[Illustration: KELLOGG’S MARVEL

_The MARVEL of BEAUTY and PRODUCTIVENESS_

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engravings see Back Cover also Pages 5 and 24)]

We never introduce any variety until thorough and extensive tests have
convinced us that it is superior to any other variety of its season. As
proof of this assertion, we proudly refer to the universal and
unrivalled success of new originations which we have introduced in the
past.

At last we have found the superior late bi-sexual variety, Kellogg’s
Marvel, (The Marvel of Beauty and Productiveness), which we predict will
assume leadership among late varieties just as Kellogg’s Premier ranks
supreme in the extra-early list.

Kellogg’s Marvel is a strong, late bi-sexual of the same season as
Kellogg’s Big Late. The plants grow to enormous size, develop big,
robust roots and crowns, are extremely hardy and vigorous and withstand
drouth to a remarkable degree. The foliage is bright snappy green, its
tough leaf tissue rendering it resistant to leaf spot, insects and
weather extremes.

Its marvelous productiveness, the beauty and exquisite flavor of its
big, bright, blood-red berries and its strong, healthy, vigorous plants
combine to make Kellogg’s Marvel as nearly 100 per cent strawberry
perfection as it is possible to obtain.

Kellogg’s Marvel originated with Percy Schuchardt of North Lake,
Wisconsin, who furnishes the following description and information:

  “_I discovered Kellogg’s Marvel seven years ago, about the middle of
  July in an old sod. The plant growth was so strong that it had
  practically choked out the grass. I removed six plants to an old
  flower bed for want of a better place to propagate them and although
  this original plot has never been weeded, watered, fertilized or cared
  for in any way since the first season, it has fruited well every year
  for the past six years and is still in commission, producing some fine
  large berries this season._

  _Kellogg’s Marvel is undoubtedly a cross of Senator Dunlap and
  Warfield as I fruited these two varieties for years prior to the
  discovery of the Kellogg’s Marvel seedling and I had the only
  strawberry patch in this vicinity._

  _The foliage of this variety resembles its presumable parents but is
  much taller and in plant growth, it is the strongest I ever have
  seen._

  _It is the most productive variety that I know of, outyielding all
  others here two to one._

  _The berries have a slight neck like Senator Dunlap but are firmer and
  longer than either Dunlap or Warfield. Their quality is excellent--far
  better than any other strawberry I have ever tasted. They are
  beautiful dark red clear through and equally splendid for all
  purposes. We use them exclusively in our hotel._

  _My admiration for Kellogg’s Marvel grows stronger every year. I
  consider it practically a ‘fool proof’ variety--one which may be
  planted anywhere with assured success._”

[Illustration: “Hats off” to Kellogg’s Marvel, the Marvel of Beauty and
Productiveness]

Just think of it--the offspring of Senator Dunlap and Warfield, two of
the very best of the old-time standard varieties. This alone is
sufficient to commend Kellogg’s Marvel if nothing more were said of it.

The photo-engravings shown on Pages 5, 24 and Back Cover give only a
slight idea of the size, color and beauty of Kellogg’s Marvel
strawberries as it is impossible to reproduce on paper their remarkable
splendor.

We have tried to be ultraconservative in our description of this variety
but we simply couldn’t--the variety wouldn’t permit. Plant Kellogg’s
Marvel this spring and you’ll acknowledge that it merits a more glowing
description than we have presented; that this variety really is “The
Marvel of Beauty and Productiveness.”

We anticipate a much greater demand for plants than we can possibly
supply and our caution, “order early to avoid the disappointing,
sold-out experience,” applies with special significance to this variety.

For prices of Kellogg’s Marvel plants see Page 66, column 4.

[Illustration: KELLOGG’S MARVEL

_The MARVEL of BEAUTY and PRODUCTIVENESS_]

[Illustration: Dr. Burrill

_The Million Dollar Strawberry_]


[Illustration: _Kellogg’s_ PREMIER

THE PRIZE-WINNER AND MONEY-MAKER

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engravings see Pages 16 and 52)]

Kellogg’s Premier today is unquestionably the most popular and most
widely grown extra-early variety. Its popularity is well earned and
deserved, for no other variety of its season can boast its equal in
productiveness, size and quality of berries and adaptability to all
soils and climates.

Kellogg’s Premier is a strong growing bisexual and although classed as
extra-early because of its unusually early ripening, it perhaps has the
longest fruiting season of all standard varieties; an ideal pollenizer
for early, medium and late pistillates.

The plants grow large, root deeply and indicate no preference as to soil
or climate, thriving everywhere and withstanding drouth to a remarkable
degree.

The foliage is tall and heavy, forming a canopy-like protection for the
great clusters of mammoth berries which are produced beneath on long,
strong fruit stalks. The berries are large, deep red, beautifully formed
and of mild, yet most delicious flavor.

Its fruiting capacity is so great as to seem almost magic and in quality
its berries outclass all other varieties of its season. Everyone who has
grown Kellogg’s Premier or seen this variety in fruit agrees with us
that it is indeed “The Prize-Winner and Money-Maker” of all extra-early
varieties.

For prices of Kellogg’s Premier plants see page 66, column 3.

  “Have just finished picking my Kellogg’s Premier and although this
  County ships 40 to 60 cars of strawberries daily, my Premier berries
  made the ‘hit of the season’. I had many opportunities to sell my
  entire patch for next season, prospective buyers telling me just to
  name my price.”

  J. LLOYD STERLING, Maryland.

  “Never, during my 37 years’ experience in growing strawberries, have I
  found any variety that in yield and quality of berries could equal
  Kellogg’s Premier. My Premier berries sold readily, in fact were in
  great demand, at an advance of 10 cents per quart over market prices.”

  ARTHUR BICKFORD, Illinois.

  “I am very highly pleased with your Kellogg’s Premier. My plants of
  this variety produced berries last season which laid side by side ran
  18 berries to the yard. This variety is certainly all you claim. I am
  considered the leading authority on strawberries in this vicinity and
  always recommend Kellogg Pedigree Plants.”

  F. W. BURLINGAME, Ohio.

  “I have nothing but the highest praise for Kellogg Pedigree Plants. Am
  especially pleased with Kellogg’s Premier and Dr. Burrill--both ‘Stem
  Winders’. They are even more than you claim for them.”

  J. F. DOWELL, Oklahoma.

  “Our Kellogg’s Premier and Dr. Burrill produced the most beautiful
  strawberries we ever have seen. Picked about 250 quarts from only 175
  plants.”

  OSCAR LARSON, Illinois.

  “Dr. Burrill is a most wonderful variety. From only five rows 135 feet
  long, we have all had we could use at home and realized over $41.00
  from the surplus berries this season.”

  M. S. WIMAN, Kansas.

  “I find Dr. Burrill a strong, vigorous grower, excellent producer and
  splendid drouth resister.”

  L. B. HIBSCHWILER, New York.

  “Kellogg Pedigree Plants are fine, especially Dr. Burrill. They are
  truly wonderful,--such large vigorous plants and such heavy fruiters.”

  MRS. FRANK L. JONES, Maine.

  “Am selling my Dr. Burrill strawberries at 40 cents per quart. They
  are very large and fancy. I cannot speak highly enough of Kellogg
  strawberries.”

  J. E. PARSONS, Ontario.


[Illustration: Dr. Burrill

_The Million Dollar Strawberry_

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engravings see Pages 25 and 53)]

Dr. Burrill embodies all desirable qualities necessary to constitute an
ideal mid-season variety with none of the undesirable features so
frequently present.

This strong, mid-season bisexual was originated by J. R. Reasoner,
(originator of Senator Dunlap), and although resembling Senator Dunlap
in some respects, it is a separate and distinctly superior variety.

The plants grow large, are heavy crown-builders and prolific runner
makers, making it equally desirable for any system of culture. Its dense
foliage forms ample protection for the berries.

Outstanding among its many desirable characteristics is its enormous
productiveness, for at fruiting time the plants are simply a mass of
blossoms and fruit.

The berries are dark red, deliciously flavored and of firm
texture--unsurpassed for canning or shipping. Their bright green calyx,
golden seeds and beautiful color of the fruit form a striking color
contrast which compels more than passing attention.

Dr. Burrill succeeds everywhere. A profitable variety for the commercial
strawberry grower--also desirable for the home garden. For prices of Dr.
Burrill plants see page 66, column 3.


[Illustration: Magic gem

THE GEM OF PERFECTION

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engraving see Page 36)]

Magic Gem is of Western origination and in plant growth is a typical
representation of the rugged characteristics which symbolize its native
section.

Although born in the West however, Magic Gem claims no preference as to
soil or climate but has become a leading favorite in home gardens and
with commercial strawberry growers in the North, East, South and West
alike.

It is a strong mid-season bisexual, its blooming season extending over
such a long period that it is successfully used for mating all except
extra-early pistillates.

Magic Gem produces abundantly and matures practically every berry. Its
berries are large, dark red, with seeds deeply embedded in the flesh.
Their firm, solid texture makes them ideal for canning or shipping to
distant markets. Crowned with beautiful, well-formed calyxes which
remain fresh and bright for an unusual length of time after picking,
they present a most attractive appearance when packed.

For home use or market, you will find Magic Gem a splendid medium-late
variety. It has been appropriately titled, “The Gem of Perfection.” For
prices of Magic Gem plants see Page 66, column 3.

  “Magic Gem is the best flavored berry I ever tasted. My Kellogg
  strawberries last season were the largest I have ever seen
  anywhere,--on the market, in the garden or on the farm.”

  W. D. FERRIS, Georgia.

  “Magic Gem is a splendid variety. I counted 56 berries on one of my
  Magic Gem plants and another plant of this variety must have produced
  at least 100 berries. My plants are not allowed to produce any
  runners.”

  W. WOODWORTH, Ohio.

  “In the spring of 1918 I set 175 Kellogg Pedigree Plants in our
  garden, 100 of which were Magic Gem, planning on having only enough
  fruit for our own use. The next season, from this small plot we sold
  $42.25 worth of berries and besides used and gave away berries to the
  value of $13.65, making the total value of our crop $55.90. If I
  figure correctly, this is at the rate of over $2,400 per acre and is
  not so rotten, I’ll say. If we hadn’t sold our home and moved away, we
  no doubt would have had a splendid crop in 1920.”

  E. G. WHITLEY, New York.

  “In your catalog, you picture some very attractive Magic Gem and
  Kellogg’s Prize berries but they are no better than berries I have
  grown of these varieties. Parties who told me I was foolish to pay
  your prices for plants when I could get plants from other growers for
  less, have changed their minds. Now they also want to set Kellogg
  Pedigree Plants.”

  F. TELFORD, Ontario, Canada.

  “I cannot say enough in praise of Magic Gem, Dr. Burrill and Kellogg’s
  Premier, all of which are splendid varieties.”

  J. BERKSHIRE, Connecticut.

  “I have been growing Kellogg’s Prize for three years. This variety
  certainly is a wonder.”

  MRS. LILLIE WILDISH, Wisconsin.

  “Kellogg’s Prize is the greatest strawberry under the sun.”

  MRS. SAATHAMP, Illinois.

  “Kellogg’s Prize is by far the best berry I ever have grown.”

  H. S. TUCKER, Missouri.

  “Kellogg’s Prize is the greatest strawberry on earth. You have made a
  mistake in pronouncing it ‘wonderful.’ You should have said
  ‘magnificent’.”

  W. H. OPENSHAW, New Jersey.

  “Kellogg’s Premier and Kellogg’s Prize can’t be recommended too
  highly.”

  J. W. SIMS, Kentucky.


[Illustration: _Kellogg’s_ PRIZE

The Late Strawberry Without a Fault

FEMALE OR PISTILLATE (P)

(For photo-engraving see Page 28)]

Kellogg’s Prize is a late pistillate, grows medium tall and spreading,
roots deeply, is strong and hardy and succeeds everywhere. It is a
consistently heavy fruiter.

Its berries are uniformly large, beautiful and delicious. They are
produced in clusters beneath the heavy texture foliage which admits just
enough of the sun’s rays to insure uniform color and ripening. Their
deep crimson color splashed with dark red, together with their waxlike
surface and beautiful calyx, make Kellogg’s Prize berries an object of
beauty which words cannot describe. Their mild, delicious flavor once
tasted, creates a lingering desire for more.

Kellogg’s Prize is a favorite in all sections. Its many exceptional
merits combine to make this “The Late Strawberry Without a Fault.” For
prices of Kellogg’s Prize plants see page 66, column 3.

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s_ PRIZE

The Late Strawberry Without a Fault]

[Illustration: Gibson _Makes Good Everywhere_]


[Illustration: _Kellogg’s_ BIG LATE

THE QUEEN OF QUALITY & QUANTITY

FEMALE OR PISTILLATE (P)

(For photo-engraving see Page 37)]

Kellogg’s Big Late is a strong growing late pistillate, an excellent
drouth resister, has a long, heavy root system, large healthy foliage
and is a big, robust crown-builder. It is a consistently heavy producer
of large, deep scarlet colored berries which are produced abundantly in
clusters on long fruiting stems. Their highly delicious flavor and
fragrant aroma leaves nothing to be desired. A beautiful bright green
calyx which remains fresh and bright longer after picking than most
varieties crowns each berry. This, together with the firm, solid berry
texture, makes Big Late a desirable shipping variety.

This is the sixth consecutive season we have offered Kellogg’s Big Late
to our customers and the increasing orders for this variety each year is
evidence of its popularity.

Given an opportunity, Kellogg’s Big Late will convince you that words
and pictures are incapable of rendering a just description of this
variety,--that it is “The Queen of Quality and Quantity.”

For prices of Kellogg’s Big Late plants see Page 66, column 3.

  “Kellogg’s Big Late produces uniformly large berries and the flavor is
  all that any lover of strawberries could wish for. I would not want
  any better variety.”

  JOHN W. COOPER, Kansas.

  “Some of my Big Late berries measured 4 to 5 inches in circumference.
  They have made folks here sit up and take notice and agree with me
  that it pays to set Kellogg Pedigree Plants.”

  T. H. SMITH, Iowa.

  “Kellogg’s Big Late is a wonderful variety. The berries hold up fine
  after picking.”

  MRS. E. S. EGGLESTON, Indiana.

  “Kellogg’s Big Late is all that can be desired in a strawberry. This
  variety stands extremes of weather unusually well.”

  CLYDE FORMAN, Kansas.

  “This is the fourth year we have grown Kellogg’s Big Late which is now
  loaded with fruit. Both this variety and your Superb Everbearer are
  excellent.”

  ADAM RAE, Washington.

  “Kellogg’s Big Late is the leading strawberry in our locality. I sold
  my berries at 40 cents per single quart or $8.00 per crate, realizing
  $1,213.95 from only one-half acre. In addition, I also paid quite a
  few pickers’ bills in berries, supplied all our own family of ten
  could use on the table and we canned and preserved our winter supply,
  of which no account was kept. The varieties were Kellogg’s Big Four
  and Big Late.”

  H. A. WYSONG, Indiana.


[Illustration: Gibson

_Makes Good Everywhere_

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engraving see Page 29)]

[Illustration: THE OPEN DOOR OF OPPORTUNITY

“_This Kellogg Strawberry Garden produced more berries than we could
possibly use. It has shown me ‘the open door of opportunity’ and I now
want to order about 3,000 Kellogg Pedigree Plants. I am especially
interested in Kellogg Everbearers. Please send me your latest price
list._”

(Extract from a letter received from Mrs. Pearl Hays of Louisiana, shown
above in her Kellogg Strawberry Garden.)]

We are listing Gibson this season for the first time in response to an
increasing demand for plants of this variety.

Although considered by some to be identical with Parson’s Beauty and
Pocomoke and resembling these varieties in some characteristics, we
consider it superior to both.

Gibson is a strong mid-season bi-sexual,--an ideal pollenizer.

Its plants grow strong and vigorous and root heavily. The foliage is
glossy, dark-green, tough and heavy in texture and remarkably resistant
to drouth, insects and disease.

Gibson is wonderfully productive of large, firm, round-conic berries
which are uniform in size and shape and beautiful dark crimson from
surface to center. They are of mild, delicious flavor; ideal for
immediate table use, also excellent for canning or shipping as they
retain their beautiful color, form and natural flavor when canned for
winter or shipped to distant markets. The berries hold up in size right
through the season, practically every berry reaching maturity and
ripening evenly.

Gibson is grown almost exclusively as a market berry in some sections
and is rapidly increasing in popularity because it “Makes Good
Everywhere.” For prices of Gibson plants see Page 66, column 2.


[Illustration: Kellogg’s BIG WONDER

_A Wonderful Strawberry_

MALE OR BI SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engravings see Pages 32 and 64)]

Rare indeed are varieties which possess the winning qualities embodied
in Kellogg’s Big Wonder. Here is a strong, medium-late bisexual which,
in foliage and plant growth, simply “can’t be beat.”

The plants grow very tall and vigorous and the leaves which are borne on
strong, heavy stems, are large, dark green, of exceptionally tough
texture and practically immune to disease. A long, heavy root system
enables this variety to withstand weather extremes to a remarkable
degree. Its berries are large, glossy dark-red and highly flavored. It
produces abundantly and the berries are well protected by the foliage.
You will like Kellogg’s Big Wonder as it is indeed “A Wonderful
Strawberry.” For prices of Kellogg’s Big Wonder plants see Page 66,
column 3.

  “My Kellogg’s Big Wonder plants are such fine specimens that I am
  enclosing herewith an order for more and remittance of $9.00 in
  payment.”

  J. J. WOLFE, Iowa.

  “I am very well pleased with Kellogg’s Big Late and Sionilli which I
  received from you last year. These varieties have given me a big crop
  of high quality berries for which I received the highest price
  throughout the season.”

  J. P. FLYNN, Michigan.

  “My Sionilli plants did splendidly, producing very dark red berries of
  excellent quality.”

  LEON E. DIX, Vermont.

  “Kellogg Pedigree Plants pay and pay big. They are rank growers, great
  drouth resisters, heavy producers and the berries are very large and
  of highest quality. I have found Sionilli a desirable variety.”

  J. M. PASLEY, Missouri.

  “Our yield from Kellogg Pedigree Plants was very, very good and the
  berries were of such high quality that we could not begin to supply
  the demand for them among our neighbors. Our fanciest berries were
  produced by your wonderful variety, Sionilli.”

  M. J. PERRY, New York.

  “Sionilli and Kellogg’s Progressive are successes in this climate.
  None better.”

  DR. D. A. GOVE, Washington.

  “I like Sionilli very much. This variety is a winner.”

  G. W. BOROUGH, Indiana.

  “I have found Sionilli a splendid variety. It is a very heavy cropper.
  Its berries are large, dark red and of unusually fine flavor. Kellogg
  Pedigree Plants ‘can’t be beat’.”

  N. T. CRAWFORD, Virginia.

[Illustration: President P. E. Beatty inspecting a field and picking of
Sionilli strawberries on the grounds of the originator of this variety
previous to its introduction by us in 1919.]


[Illustration: _Sion-illi_

_BIG IN SIZE BIG IN YIELD_

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engraving see Page 33)]

Sionilli is a strong, late bisexual,--an ideal mate for Kellogg’s Prize
and Kellogg’s Big Late. Sionilli plants are “Big in Size--Big in Yield,”
grow strong and upright with heavy root system which extends as deeply
into the soil as the foliage grows above the surface, making it one of
the strongest drouth resisters.

The foliage, which is large and of heavy texture, furnishes ample
protection for the berries which are produced beneath on strong, upright
stems.

Sionilli is an exceptionally heavy producer. Its berries are real dark
red from surface to center and of supremely delicious flavor, unlike any
other strawberry. They are of firm texture, topped with beautiful, fully
developed calyx and possess remarkable keeping and shipping qualities.

Our strongest endorsement cannot express our admiration for Sionilli. We
unhesitatingly recommend it as an excellent late variety both for the
commercial strawberry grower and the home garden. For prices of Sionilli
plants see Page 66, column 3.

[Illustration: Kellogg’s BIG WONDER

_A Wonderful Strawberry_]

[Illustration: _Sion-illi_

_BIG IN SIZE_

_BIG IN YIELD_]




[Illustration: _News and Views from Kellogg Customers_


  Word and picture evidence of their success in all sections of the
  country--success widespread as the name and fame of Kellogg Pedigree
  Plants. Lack of space renders it impossible for us to reproduce the
  many photographs and letters of satisfaction which have come to us.
  The thousands in our files would fill a volume of many pages. Where,
  as forcibly as in letters like these, could you find such strong
  assurance of the satisfaction and success which you too may enjoy from
  Kellogg Strawberries grown the Kellogg Way?


  10 YEARS--NONE BETTER

  “We have grown Kellogg Strawberries for the past ten years and always
  have an abundance of big, delicious berries of the highest quality.
  NONE BETTER.”

  E. W. DAY, Illinois.


  TOO GOOD TO SELL

  “Kellogg Strawberries certainly have the size, flavor and quality and
  are abundant fruiters. We preserve and can our surplus as they are TOO
  GOOD TO SELL.”

  D. D. HUBBARD, California.


  20 YEARS OF SATISFACTION

  “Kellogg Pedigree Plants have proved entirely satisfactory to me and
  the berries have been the wonder of the neighborhood. I sent you my
  first order for plants while living in Wisconsin about 20 years ago
  and have continued to send you my orders ever since.”

  T. J. HAMMOND, Oregon.


  $125 FROM ONLY $8 INVESTMENT

  “I enclose order for Kellogg Pedigree Plants and remittance of $30 in
  payment. Our last order amounting to only $8, gave us $125 worth of
  berries besides all we could use. We are VERY WELL SATISFIED.”

  C. C. HAHN, Ohio.


  THREE QUARTS PER PLANT

  “My greatest strawberry success has come from Kellogg Pedigree Plants.
  I wish you could have seen my patch when it was at its best last
  spring. I had plants that produced as many as 120 berries to the plant
  and 35 to 40 of these berries made a quart. Our small patch gave us
  all the berries we could eat three times a day during the summer and
  fall, (the last on Thanksgiving Day), all we wanted to can for winter
  and the surplus berries paid all expenses.”

  GASTON SMATHERS, North Carolina.

  If you now are growing or ever have grown Kellogg Pedigree Plants, you
  will at once appreciate the sincere satisfaction which has prompted
  these letters. Perhaps you too at some time have written us or have
  felt inclined to do so, telling of your success with Kellogg
  Strawberries. But if you never have grown them, you certainly have
  missed a splendid opportunity to enjoy Nature’s rarest treat at its
  best. If you have any available ground, whether only a small backyard
  garden or a large acreage, set a patch of Kellogg Pedigree Plants this
  spring and at fruiting time you will be convinced beyond all doubt
  that you can’t afford to be without them. You’ll be just as
  enthusiastic over their big delicious berry crops as our thousands of
  other customers who proclaim them best by test.]

[Illustration: _Magic Gem_

_THE GEM of PERFECTION_]

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s_

BIG LATE

THE QUEEN OF QUALITY & QUANTITY]


[Illustration: _Senator Dunlap_

THE WORLD-WIDE FAVORITE

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engravings see Pages 17 and 49)]

Wherever strawberries are grown, fields of Senator Dunlap are a familiar
sight and the name has become a household word.

Senator Dunlap is a tall, dense, hardy grower. It has an unusually long
fruiting season, producing great quantities of handsome, delicious,
top-shaped berries having a pronounced neck crowned with a beautiful
bright green calyx. The berries are dark, glossy red shading to deep
scarlet on under side, with golden seeds embedded in the beautiful
waxlike flesh and present a most attractive appearance when packed for
market.

For shipping, canning or immediate table use, Senator Dunlap is a
“World-Wide Favorite”--the most popular of the old standard varieties.
For prices of Senator Dunlap plants see Page 66, column 1.


Other Old Standard Varieties


AROMA

Male or Bi-sexual (B)

LATE. Grows low and spreading. Heavy producer of large, rather round,
dark-red berries. Extra good shipper and splendid keeper. For prices see
Page 66, column 1.


GLEN MARY

Male or Bi-sexual (B)

MID-SEASON. Medium tall and heavy grower. Very productive of
extra-large, bright-red berries which shade to a lighter color at the
tip. Its productiveness, shipping and other good qualities have made
this mid-season bi-sexual a favorite in many localities. For prices see
Page 66, column 2.


HAVERLAND

Female or Pistillate (P)

EARLY. Plants grow rather tall and spreading. Exceedingly productive of
long, medium-size, bright-red berries. A well known old-time standard
variety. For prices see Page 66, column 1.


WARFIELD

Female or Pistillate (P)

EARLY. Tall and extra-strong grower. Very hardy and succeeds everywhere.
One of the most productive varieties in existence. Berries are medium
large, smooth, very dark-red and attractive. One of the best shippers
and canners. Warfield will be found wherever strawberries are grown. A
choice variety for the home garden or field. For prices see Page 66,
column 1.


WM. BELT

Male or Bi-sexual (B)

MID-SEASON. Medium tall grower with very heavy foliage. Produces big,
bright-red berries in great abundance. Berries are slightly irregular
but of high quality. For prices see Page 66, column 2.

       *       *       *       *       *


  A SOUND INVESTMENT REGARDLESS OF PRICE

  “I have just returned home from my recent trip during which I visited
  your farm and wish to take this means of thanking you for the very
  cordial hospitality extended to me and the opportunity to see for
  myself what you are doing. I was greatly impressed with your
  organization under which your work is systematized into departments,
  also the neatness which prevailed everywhere. I was also very
  favorably impressed with your splendid Skinner Irrigation System which
  has carried you so successfully through the season’s severe drouth.
  Your vigorous plant and rotation crops furnish evidence of good
  judgment in installing this system of irrigation.

  The thorough manner in which every detail of your work is carried out
  naturally adds to the cost of producing Kellogg Pedigree Plants but
  the resulting improvement in quality amply justifies the expenditure.

  Regardless of the price your customers pay for Kellogg Pedigree
  Plants, their investment is a sound one. Your methods insure success
  and I am sure you will continue to reap it.”

  ALBERT J. HARTUNG, Michigan.




Kellogg’s Everbearers

(For photo-engravings see Pages 8 and 45)


Kellogg’s Everbearers begin fruiting the first year about three months
after plants are set and continue to fruit heavily until checked by
severe winter weather. The following year they begin fruiting in June,
producing a spring crop fully as large as many of the standard varieties
and (after a rest period in July) another enormous crop during the
summer and fall. They are not affected by frost or light freezing. We
have picked and served delicious Everbearing Strawberries early in
December after a six-inch snowfall.

The high prices received for fall berries and the fact that Kellogg’s
Everbearers produce a substantial crop the same season the plants are
set, makes them highly desirable for the home garden or commercial
strawberry grower.

To anyone who never has grown or seen the Everbearers fruiting in the
fall and who is inclined to question their summer and fall fruiting
habits, we want to say that it is difficult--yes, practically impossible
to keep off the late summer and fall blossoms, so persistent is their
nature to fruit at that time.

They have been developed out of the experimental stage, their success is
absolutely unquestionable and we recommend them with our highest
endorsement.

As a result of weather conditions last summer, there is a very small
crop of Everbearing plants throughout the country and only by ordering
early can you be assured of getting them this spring.


[Illustration: Kellogg’s Perfection

THE SUPREME EVERBEARER

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engraving see Page 40)]

Kellogg’s Perfection won the $1,000 cash prize offered for the
Everbearer proving the most perfect in every way, hence its name.

Perfection is strong, hardy and vigorous in plant growth, roots deeply
and resists drouth to a remarkable degree.

It is unusually productive of uniformly large, well-formed berries of
rich red color, delicate flavor and high quality.

We introduced Kellogg’s Perfection Everbearer in 1920 and its success
with our customers amply justifies us in recommending it with assurance
that you will find it “The Supreme Everbearer.”

Owing to the fact that Kellogg’s Perfection makes few runners we are
unable to quote this variety as low as our other Everbearers. It makes
just enough runners to fill a well formed fruiting row, a decided
advantage to the strawberry grower. For prices of Kellogg’s Perfection
Everbearing plants see Page 66.

  “I will fruit about 350 Kellogg’s Perfection this season and if they
  do as well as my first 25 plants of this variety did, I shall discard
  all others and plant it exclusively.”

  J. S. COOK, Iowa.

  “The Kellogg Everbearers you shipped me last spring gave splendid
  satisfaction. We grew them hill system as you advised and had ripe
  berries from the latter part of July until October 5th, when a severe
  freeze came. I can safely say that they averaged a quart to the
  plant.”

  A. T. PATTERSON, Alberta, Canada.

  “Will you kindly send me four copies of ‘Kellogg’s Great Crops of
  Strawberries and How to Grow Them’? This may seem a strange request
  but I desire to place them with certain important people who, after
  seeing my Perfection Everbearing Strawberries, have requested me to
  obtain your strawberry book for them. If you will kindly forward four
  copies, I promise you results from the same.”

  H. M. FELL, New York.

  “Last spring I set 275 Kellogg’s Progressive Everbearers from which we
  picked 250 quarts up until freezing weather in the fall. They were far
  beyond my greatest expectations.”

  LOUIS HARTLEY, Oregon.

  “I set 200 Kellogg’s Progressive Everbearers last spring and we
  enjoyed our last berries from these plants November 24th when the
  ground froze hard. The plants at that time were loaded with blossoms
  and berries of all sizes. I never saw their equal.”

  S. A. REEDER, Illinois.

  “We set 1,000 Kellogg’s Progressive Everbearing plants last spring and
  they have produced so wonderfully that we now wish to place an order
  for 1,000 more. Please advise cost.”

  MRS. GEO. BOLLMAN, Idaho.


[Illustration: _PROGRESSIVE_

_The Universal Everbearer_

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engravings see pages 9 and 41)]

Progressive grows rather tall and spreading, has vigorous, healthy
foliage, long, heavy root system and is a splendid drouth resister. It
is a strong bisexual--an ideal mate for any pistillate variety.

Its berries are medium large, beautiful dark red in color and of most
delicious flavor, ideal for serving fresh from the vines or for canning
and preserving for the winter.

Progressive is one of the first varieties to ripen in the spring and the
last to ripen in the fall. It not only fruits heavily but brings
practically every berry to full size and maturity. Its fall crop sells
readily at 30 to 50 cents per quart.

The many dependable qualities of Progressive have made this “The
Universal Everbearer.” An ideal variety for home use or market. For
prices of Progressive Everbearing plants see Page 66, column 5.

[Illustration: Kellogg’s Perfection

THE SUPREME EVERBEARER]

[Illustration: _PROGRESSIVE_

_The Universal Everbearer_]


[Illustration: SUPERB

the =BIG= EVERBEARING WONDER

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engraving see Page 57)]

This variety derives its name from its many superb characteristics. Its
plants grow low and spreading and are exceedingly vigorous, the heavy
foliage completely covering the blossoms and berries and furnishing a
splendid protection from the hot summer sun and late fall frosts.

Although Superb does not produce as heavily as our other everbearing
varieties, its berries which are of the round type are extra large,
strictly fancy and most delicious. They are deep red from surface to
center and when packed for market present a most beautiful appearance,
always finding ready sale at high prices regardless of market
conditions. They are of exceptionally firm texture and ideal for
shipping as they will carry a considerable distance and arrive in
perfect condition. Superb is universally acknowledged “The Big
Everbearing Wonder.” For prices of Superb plants see Page 66, column 5.

  “My Superb and Progressive Everbearers fruited forty days last spring.
  They began fruiting again in August and were loaded with blossoms and
  fruit right up until winter. The berry illustrations in your catalog
  have nothing on what I could have shown last season when this patch of
  Everbearers was fruiting.”

  R. B. SLAVEN, West Virginia.

  “I have found Kellogg’s Superb Everbearing variety all that you claim
  for it and expect to set more plants of this variety next season. I
  have no trouble whatever in disposing of all my extra berries at 35
  cents per quart.”

  MRS. E. E. ADKINS, South Dakota.

  “I have had the best of success with Kellogg’s Superb Everbearers.
  Plants grow as big as a bushel basket and sure are beauties. I am
  enclosing an order for more plants to be shipped next spring.”

  LOUIS BALFANZ, Wisconsin.

  “Kellogg’s Superb Everbearers and Hearts of Gold Cantaloupes grew side
  by side in my garden last summer. Both did splendidly and were the
  very best to be had.”

  MRS. L. J. BURCKHARDT, Kansas.

  “We find Kellogg Everbearers fully up to the standard you claim for
  them. They are the highest quality plants we have ever had.”

  PETER V. CODDINGTON, New York.

  “We are well pleased with Kellogg’s Everbearing strawberries. Had an
  abundance of berries last year from mid-summer until Thanksgiving.”

  JAMES G. CORTELYOU, California.

  “The small trial order of Kellogg Everbearers which we received from
  you last spring has given wonderful satisfaction. We had ripe berries
  right up to November. As a result of this experience, I intend to go
  into the strawberry business on a much larger scale and will set
  Kellogg Pedigree Plants.”

  E. H. DIENST, Saskatchewan, Canada.

  “Saw your advertisement in Country Gentleman and am sending herewith
  an order and payment for Kellogg Everbearing Plants. I hope I am not
  too late to get these plants as strawberries are selling here at 50
  cents a quart which is too much for hard working people to pay.”

  MRS. C. F. CARR, New York.

  “To say the least, we are simply delighted with Kellogg’s Everbearers.
  People come from miles around to see and purchase our berries. We have
  picked big, delicious berries in large quantities from May 28th until
  November 14th, selling all our berries right at home at an average
  price of 30 cents per quart. Had no trouble in selling all we raised
  and could have sold many more. We have recommended Kellogg Pedigree
  Plants to our friends for miles around, and anyone who writes me in
  regard to them will receive my answer, ‘They are all that is claimed
  for them and we cannot recommend them too highly.’ Please send me your
  catalog as I wish to order more Kellogg Plants next spring.”

  F. A. LASHURE, Ohio.

  “From one row of Kellogg’s Peerless Everbearers only 113 feet long, I
  picked 25 quarts at one picking.”

  J. S. COOK, Iowa.


[Illustration: _Peerless_

_The_ Big, Solid Beauty

MALE OR BI-SEXUAL (B)

(For photo-engraving see Page 56)]

All who have grown Peerless or seen it in fruit highly recommend this
variety both for home use and market.

It produces a big spring crop and throughout the summer and fall the
plants are simply a mass of blossoms and fruit.

Peerless, in many respects, bears a close resemblance to Superb. Its
foliage, however, grows taller and more upright than Superb. Its berries
are fully as large as those produced by Superb but are a trifle darker
in color. Both the spring and fall berries are large, round, of glossy
dark-red color and highly flavored. Their beauty attracts the eye and
their flavor satisfies the most exacting epicure. Peerless has been well
termed “The Big Solid Beauty.” For prices of Peerless plants see Page
66, column 5.




Kellogg Strawberry Gardens

(For photo-engravings see Pages 34, 35, 45 and 48)


Although frequently referred to as “The Aristocrat of the Garden,” the
strawberry may be more suggestively entitled “Nature’s Priceless Gift”
for its many advantages, not restricted to class or clan, are enjoyed by
the millions and the millionaire alike.

Like strawberries? The person who doesn’t relish them is an exception.
Every red-blooded boy and girl craves them while the older folks too
admit a fondness especially when, fresh from the vine, they are so
temptingly sweet and delicious that every taste creates a lingering
desire for more. From “toddling tot” to “tottering age” there is no
period in life when they are not thoroughly welcomed by every member of
the family and acknowledged by leading authorities as a wholesome,
health-giving food.

Just imagine having heaps of these big delicious nuggets of beauty every
day in the year--(the kind money can’t always buy)--with plenty left
over to give you a snug profit besides. Kellogg Strawberry Gardens are
making this vision of strawberry satisfaction and profit a reality in
homes everywhere.

If you have even a small plot of ground, plant a Kellogg Strawberry
Garden this spring and you will never again be content without this
wonderful source of pleasure, economy and profit. You’ll be just as
enthusiastic as thousands of others who after having experienced the
thrilling delights these gardens afford, have written us letters like
the following:

  “I have had a home strawberry garden for fifteen years and Kellogg
  Pedigree Plants are the only plants which have ever occupied space in
  this garden. I am so thoroughly satisfied that I will set no others
  and you are indebted to me for recommending them to many who have
  ordered from you.”

  MRS. M. D. Z. AIKEN, Michigan.

  “My Kellogg Strawberry Garden has proved a great success. Everyone
  says the berries were the finest they ever ate.”

  MRS. H. G. F. GRANT, Virginia.

  “My Kellogg Strawberry Garden has given me fine results this season,
  averaging nearly a quart of fancy berries per plant. I recommend
  Kellogg Pedigree Plants in every way possible and will certainly send
  to you when in need of more strawberry plants.”

  MISS ELLA S. RAYMOND, Missouri.

  “The Kellogg Strawberry Garden I set in the spring of 1919 produced 26
  gallons of choice berries the following year. This garden has yielded
  12 gallons so far this summer and the vines are still loaded. I tell
  everybody where I buy my plants so they can send to you.”

  J. T. COUNTS, West Virginia.

  “We cannot say enough in favor of Kellogg Strawberries as our Kellogg
  Garden consisting of only 200 plants, gave us 324 quarts of most
  delicious berries this season. We sold 250 quarts at 30 cents per
  quart, realizing a total of $75.00 and besides, had all we wanted for
  ourselves. My wife put up 50 quarts for winter. They were the best
  berries in town and all who saw them were struck with their beauty. We
  expect to do even better next year as we set another patch this
  spring.”

  J. A. GOURD, Connecticut.

Considered from any standpoint, a Kellogg Strawberry Garden is a
necessity to the home. Whether Fortune has lavished an abundance upon
you and yours or if strict economy must of necessity be the watchword,
you’ll find a Kellogg Strawberry Garden indispensable.

It has been well said that the reason strawberries are not grown by
every family having a few square feet of ground, is that the
determination to plant a strawberry garden comes to so many people
during the strawberry season. The time for planting is then so many
months away that their enthusiasm wanes before their resolution can be
put into effect.

If you want your vision of strawberry satisfaction to become a reality
when strawberries ripen, you must send us your order early. Do this and
swell your expectations to the highest possible degree for you can’t
begin to overestimate the luxurious treat that awaits you when your
berries ripen.

If you fail to find among our regular Garden selections, one that fits
your requirements, just tell us the number of plants you wish to set,
give us the dimensions of your strawberry plot, or better still send us
the amount you wish to invest in a garden and we will select one that
can’t help pleasing you.

Remember--spring time is planting time. Reserve your Kellogg Strawberry
Garden early. It will go forward to you all transportation charges
prepaid at planting time in the spring.


KELLOGG’S BIG FOUR GARDEN

Special Delivered Price Only $7.00

Kellogg’s Big Four Garden is composed of 400 plants of Kellogg’s famous
Big Four varieties as follows: 100 Kellogg’s Premier, 100 Dr. Burrill,
100 Magic Gem and 100 Kellogg’s Prize (or Big Late). These varieties are
fully described on Pages 26, 27 and 30.

Our special price for Kellogg’s Big Four Garden, delivered all
transportation charges prepaid to your nearest Express or Post Office,
is only $7.00.


KELLOGG’S JUNIOR GARDEN

Special Delivered Price Only $4.50

This, (our small family Garden), is composed of three standard varieties
and one Everbearer. It consists of 200 Kellogg Pedigree Plants of our
own selection as follows: 50 plants each of three choice standard
varieties (including 50 plants of one of Kellogg’s Big Four) also 50
choice Everbearers.

Our special price for Kellogg’s Junior Garden, delivered all
transportation charges prepaid to your nearest Express or Post Office,
is only $4.50.




[Illustration: KELLOGG’S

EVERBEARING STRAWBERRY GARDEN

(For photo-engravings see Pages 45 and 48)

SPECIAL DELIVERED PRICE, ONLY $9.00]


This Garden begins fruiting about three months after plants are set,
furnishing an abundance of delicious berries fresh from the vines right
up until heavy freezing weather. Next year it will begin fruiting with
the standard varieties in June and with the exception of a short rest
period in July, will yield continuously and abundantly until snow flies.

The photo-engraving on page 45 shows a Kellogg Everbearing Garden
fruiting in the fall. The group of fall vegetables, corn in shock and
young ladies in fall apparel, tell of the lateness of the season.

It is hardly possible to overestimate the pleasure, profit and economy
derived from one of these gardens. It will furnish your own table with
an abundance of sweet, delicious berries fresh from the vines throughout
the summer and fall, provide a sufficient supply of canned berries, jam
and preserves for the long, dreary winter and besides, there also will
be a surplus which will sell readily at profitable prices. As a matter
of fact, this garden frequently pays all expenses and gives a
substantial cash profit besides.

  Kellogg’s Everbearing Garden is composed of the following world-famed
  Kellogg Everbearing Plants, described on pages 39 and 42: [1]

  100 Progressive, actual value               $ 4.15
  100 Peerless, actual value                    4.15
   50 Superb, actual value                      2.60
  ---                                         ------
  250 Plants                    Total value   $10.90
  _Special price (delivered prepaid) only_   _$ 9.00_
                                              ------
  Actual cash saving to you                   $ 1.90

  [1] (NOTE--We reserve the right to alter this Garden to include more
  or less plants of any of the varieties named above if crop conditions
  make it necessary, but agree to furnish a total of 250 Kellogg
  Everbearing Plants.)

Reserve Your Kellogg Everbearing Garden Early

There is nothing gained by delay. On the contrary, you will be
disappointed if your order reaches us after these Gardens are all sold.
For this reason we advise ordering early so that we can make reservation
of yours until spring when the plants will be freshly dug, carefully
packed and shipped to you, all transportation charges prepaid.

       *       *       *       *       *

  “I want to tell you of my success with the Kellogg Everbearing Garden
  I planted last spring and how well pleased I am with this Garden. It
  has far outyielded my expectations and has been the talk of everyone
  who has seen it in fruit. As a result of my success, I am sure you
  will get a great many orders from this locality during the coming
  season.”

  L. B. ROSS, Indiana.

[Illustration]




Kellogg’s Big Cash Prize Garden

(For photo-engraving see Page 48)


Kellogg’s Cash Prize Garden is our most popular Garden selection, and
deservedly so, because, in addition to its value from a berry producing
standpoint and the saving it affords over the regular list prices of
plants, it provides an opportunity to compete for one of the _three cash
prizes totaling $50.00_ which we award each year to the three members
realizing the greatest yields from this Garden.


  1921 PRIZE-WINNERS

  (Our checks were mailed to these Prize-Winners October 21, 1921)


  $25.00 First Prize

  “I am enclosing report of yield from my Cash Prize Garden which
  amounted to 732 quarts and made me $233. My biggest picking was on
  July 3--24 quarts with an average of 11 to 15 berries to the quart.
  They were the grandest berries I ever saw. I shall set more Kellogg
  Plants next April.”

  MRS. J. P. BLEEKER,
  Iowa City, Iowa.


  $15.00 Second Prize

  “Although everything seemed against me--the late frosts, then the
  drouth--my Cash Prize Garden produced 257 quarts this year, the
  prevailing price being 45 cents per quart, with some at 50 cents.
  Judging from the appearance of my garden at the present time, I have
  excellent prospects for next year.”

  MRS. JOHN T. HARRIS,
  Fairland, Indiana.


  $10.00 Third Prize

  “I submit the following report of berries produced in 1921 to date by
  my Kellogg Cash Prize Garden: 257 quarts at 35 cents per quart--total
  $89.95. I am pleased to say that these plants were as you represented.
  My neighbors admired them as being the finest they ever saw. Please
  send me your new catalog as I want to order more plants from you.”

  MRS. LAFAYETTE HOLT,
  Burlington, North Carolina.


LETTERS FROM 1920 PRIZE-WINNERS

  “I can’t thank you enough for the $25.00 check as First Prize in
  Kellogg’s Cash Prize Garden Contest. This came as a complete surprise
  as I never dreamed of winning one of the prizes. In fact, it is the
  first prize I ever won. I grow Kellogg Pedigree Plants exclusively and
  follow the Kellogg Way and everyone who has seen my berries asks how I
  can grow such fine, large berries. I intend setting more Kellogg
  Plants next spring.”

  MRS. JOHN RAGLE, Woodlake, California.

  “I have just received your letter advising me that I won second prize
  also your check for $15.00 and am indeed surprised to learn that I won
  one of the prizes. We consider Kellogg Strawberries the very best and
  have recommended Kellogg Pedigree Plants to many friends. Whenever I
  am in need of plants, you will get my order.”

  MISS NORA SCOTT, Hartwell, Georgia.

  “I wish to thank you for the check for $10.00 received as third prize
  in your Strawberry Contest. This was ‘some surprise’ to me as I was
  not expecting such good luck. I cannot say enough in praise of Kellogg
  Pedigree Plants. I would not take common plants as a gift if I could
  get Kellogg’s, regardless of their price.”

  MRS. EDITH M. GRASS, Limestone, Maine.


CONTEST OPEN TO ALL--NO MEMBERSHIP FEE

To become a member of this contest, which is open to everyone except
members and employes of our Company, it is only necessary to comply with
the following simple requirements:

1--Plant a Kellogg Cash Prize Garden (described below) this spring.

2--Follow the hill system. (See “Planting Systems,” Pages 50 and 51.)

3--Send us your report to reach us not later than September 15, 1923,
giving accurately the number of quarts of berries produced by this
garden in 1923 to September 1, 1923, inclusive and their total value at
market prices, stating that the yield was produced in accordance with
the requirements named here.


$50.00 IN CASH PRIZES WILL BE AWARDED IN 1923 AS FOLLOWS:

=_FIRST PRIZE--$25.00 in Cash_= to the member realizing the greatest
number of quarts in 1923 to September 1, 1923, inclusive, from Kellogg’s
Cash Prize Garden described below, planted this spring.

=_SECOND PRIZE--$15.00 in Cash_= to the member realizing the second
greatest yield.

=_THIRD PRIZE--$10.00 in Cash_= to the member realizing the third
greatest yield.

Our checks will be mailed to the prize-winners as soon as possible after
the close of the contest. No contestant will be awarded more than one
prize. In case of a tie, each tieing contestant will be awarded the full
amount of the prize indicated.

  Kellogg’s Cash Prize Garden

  CONSISTS OF

  _=50 Kellogg’s Premier=_, “_The Prize-Winner and   } =Special Price=
  Money-Maker_”                                      }
                                                     }
  _=50 Dr. Burrill=_, “_The Million Dollar           } Delivered, all
  Strawberry_”                                       } transportation
  _=50 Magic Gem=_, “_The Gem of Perfection_”        } charges prepaid--
  _=50 Kellogg’s Big Late=_, “_The Queen of Quality  }
  and Quantity_”                                     }
  _=50 Kellogg’s Progressive=_, “_The Universal      } =Only $6.50=
  Everbearer_”                                       }

  These varieties are illustrated and described elsewhere in this book.
  At our special Garden price of $6.50, you save $1.10 and in addition
  you also have an opportunity to compete for one of the substantial
  cash prizes mentioned above.

  (_Remember--this is our most popular Garden. Reserve yours early._)
  =Join= KELLOGG’S CASH PRIZE GARDEN CONTEST =Now!=




How to Grow Great Crops of Strawberries the Kellogg Way


The Essentials of Successful Strawberry Growing

Pure-bred, highly productive plants, well prepared fertile soil,
thorough cultural methods and proper picking, packing and marketing of
the berries are the four essentials necessary to insure big crops and
big profits from strawberries.

Pure-bred, highly productive plants always can be depended upon to
produce big crops of fancy berries when the other essentials are
present.

Well prepared fertile soil is very essential because plants are
dependent upon the food elements supplied by the soil and the more
fertility the soil contains, the more material each plant has to draw
upon in building its crop.

Thorough cultivation serves to retain moisture, increases the activity
of the bacteria which convert the plant food into available form,
prevents weeds, and promotes heavy root development which in turn
increases the growth and productiveness of the plants.

The picking, packing and marketing of the berry crop is the last and one
of the most important steps in strawberry growing. Fancy berries can be
made to appear more attractive and inviting by proper picking and
packing, and by adding to their beauty and attractiveness, you will
create a greater demand and the berries will command higher prices.

The most successful strawberry growers put these essentials into
practice to the fullest extent.


Choosing Plants

The quality of the plants you set determines the quality and quantity of
berries you will pick.

Pure-bred, true-to-name plants, selected from mother plants of the
highest fruiting powers, are the foundation of a profitable berry crop,
but plants which are taken from fruiting beds, or which have been
propagated without any regard to selection and restriction, soon will
deteriorate and become unprofitable.

Whether you grow strawberries for home-use or market, it is to your
profit to set plants which will respond readily to the intensive
cultural methods described in this book.

Kellogg Pedigree Strawberry Plants are recognized as the world’s most
productive and most profitable strain. They can be secured only from R.
M. Kellogg Company, Three Rivers, Mich.


Soils

Any soil that will produce vegetables or common farm crops also will
produce strawberries. However, old timothy sod should be avoided on
account of white grubs. The kind of soil you have is not so important as
what is put into the soil, the manner in which it is prepared, and the
cultural methods followed. The soil is nothing more than the home where
the plants live. It is the feeding and care which they receive that
encourages their growth and productiveness. Strawberries thrive in high
and low altitudes and in all soils and climates therefore instead of
seeking better soil, improve your own soil by following the instructions
given in this book.


Soil Preparation and Fertilizers

Whenever possible, it is advisable to plow or spade your field or garden
in the fall and after plowing, apply stable manure at the rate of about
250 pounds per square rod or 18 tons per acre. The following spring
replow the ground.

If it is impossible to plow in the fall, the ground should be manured
during the winter and plowed in the spring just as early as soil
conditions will permit.

In either case the soil should be thoroughly pulverized and well mixed
with the manure after plowing by rolling and harrowing to insure a
perfect seed bed the full depth of plowing. This should be done
immediately after plowing to retain moisture. In small gardens this may
be done with garden rake.

If stable manure is not applied during the winter, it is advisable to
apply it between the rows as soon as possible after plants are set.
Poultry manure is an ideal fertilizer but if this is used it should be
thoroughly composted with earth before applying on account of its
heating tendencies. This is done by forming a pile three or four feet in
height and of any convenient size composed of alternate layers of earth
and manure, each layer from two to four inches deep. This pile should be
allowed to stand until the manure has decomposed. It should then be
thoroughly forked over to mix the earth and manure. Apply after plowing
at the rate of 25 to 50 pounds per square rod or from two to four tons
per acre and incorporate thoroughly with the soil before planting.

Pulverized Sheep Manure also is an excellent strawberry fertilizer and
offers several decided advantages, viz:--

  It is most economical because it contains a high per cent of refined,
  concentrated plant-food in properly balanced proportions.

  It is entirely free from all weed seeds and trash. It becomes almost
  immediately available for the plants’ use. There is absolutely no
  danger, either to roots or foliage on account of using too freely.

Pulverized Sheep Manure may be applied either as a top dressing at
intervals during the growing season, by broadcasting or drilling, or in
furrows. If used as a top dressing, it should be applied three or four
times during the growing season at regular intervals directly over the
plant rows, each application at the rate of 3 pounds per square rod or
500 pounds per acre. It will be worked into the soil by hoeing and
cultivating.

[Illustration: A Group of Kellogg Strawberry Gardens grown the Kellogg
Way

  1. _Kellogg’s
  Everbearing Garden_
  (FRUITING IN THE SPRING)

  2. _Kellogg’s Big
  Four Garden_

  3. _Kellogg’s Big Cash
  Prize Garden_

  4. _Kellogg’s
  Junior Garden_

  5. _Kellogg’s Big
  Four Garden_

  6. _Kellogg’s
  Everbearing Garden_
  (FRUITING IN THE FALL)]

[Illustration: _Senator Dunlap_

_THE WORLD-WIDE FAVORITE_]

For broadcasting or drilling, make one application per season after
plowing and just before planting at the rate of 10 to 15 pounds per
square rod or one ton per acre.

For furrow fertilizing, a shallow furrow should be made where each row
of plants is to be set and the manure distributed evenly in these
furrows at the rate of 3 pounds per square rod or 500 pounds per acre.
In closing the furrows, the soil and manure should be well mixed after
which the ground is ready for planting.

After extensive experiments in which we have become thoroughly convinced
of its many merits, we have completed arrangements which enable us to
furnish our customers with Pulverized Sheep Manure. For prices see page
63.

If fertilizing with manure is impractical, use any reliable brand of
commercial fertilizer which is recommended for fruit growing. This
should be applied broadcast after plowing and thoroughly incorporated
with the soil before planting.

We are not recommending any formula of commercial fertilizer because the
soil requirements in different localities differ so widely. Practically
every section of the country is represented by fertilizer dealers or
agencies who will be glad to consult with you in regard to your
requirements. Your State Agricultural College and Experiment Station
also will advise you reliably on this subject.

Any of the above fertilizers, if applied according to our instructions,
will give satisfactory results and we suggest using the one best adapted
to your particular conditions.


Time to Set Plants

The proper time to set strawberry plants is in the early spring, from
the latter part of March until the middle of May, at which time they are
in excellent condition for shipping and planting.

Later in the season they will not stand shipping as well nor respond as
readily after setting. Therefore it is to the grower’s interest to set
plants just as early in the spring as soil conditions will permit. If
this cannot be done, plants should be shipped early and heeled-in until
they are to be set.

Only in the extreme southern states can plants be set in the fall with
any degree of success.


Heeling-In or Keeping Plants Until They Are Set

If conditions make it impossible for you to set your plants when they
arrive, they should be heeled-in or trenched to keep them in good
condition until you can set them.

Select a location that is protected from the wind and sun and dig a “V”
shaped trench about 8 inches deep. After separating the different
varieties, open the bunches and spread the plants along the side of the
trench, roots downward. Then draw loose soil over against the roots and
press it down firmly, being careful not to cover the crowns. Place
another layer of plants and continue alternating plants and soil,
putting about one inch of soil between layers of plants. The varieties
should be kept separate in order that each variety may be readily
located when setting the plants.

After the plants are heeled-in, water the ground until it is thoroughly
soaked around the roots and keep moist until they are set.

It is advisable to have plants shipped early and heel-in until you are
ready to set them as this method will keep them in excellent condition
for several weeks.


Planting Systems

There are many systems for planting and growing strawberries but the
most profitable are the hill, single-hedge and double-hedge row.

[Illustration: SIDE VIEW OF SECTION OF A ROW SHOWING PLANTS GROWN HILL
SYSTEM]

[Illustration: Sex in strawberry plants graphically presented. Above;
pistillate blossom. Below; blossom of a bi-sexual plant.]

For the hill system, rows should be made 30 inches apart, plants set 15
inches apart in the row and all runners removed.

By setting in check rows the wide spaces can be cultivated with
single-horse cultivator and the narrow spaces with hand cultivator. This
leaves only a very small area around each plant to be hoed and reduces
considerably the cost of cultivation.

In small gardens the rows may be made two feet apart and plants set one
foot apart in the row and if crowded for room they may be set 15 inches
apart each way.

Fourteen thousand plants may be set on a single acre when they are set
30 x 15 inches.

  (NOTE: By Hill System, we do not refer to hilling or ridging the
  ground. The plants should be set with the crowns level with the
  surface the same as in either of the other systems. Never ridge the
  ground unless there is slow and improper drainage.)

The single-hedge row is formed by setting plants two feet apart in rows
which are spaced three feet apart. Each original plant is allowed to
make two runner plants which are layered on opposite sides of the mother
plant directly in line with the row. All other runners should be
removed. Seven thousand plants are required for one acre.

For the double-hedge row, plants are set two feet apart in rows which
are spaced three and one-half feet apart. Each original plant is allowed
to make six runner plants, two of which are layered on opposite sides of
the mother plant directly in line with the row. The other four are
layered, two on each side of the mother plant, in the spaces between the
rows. This forms three distinct rows, the original row and a row of
runner plants on each side. After the rows are thus formed all other
runners should be removed. Six thousand plants are required for one
acre.


Mating Varieties

Strawberry varieties are divided into sexes, male, (staminate or
bi-sexual), usually indicated by the letter “B”; and female,
(pistillate), by “P.”

The blossoms of the male varieties contain both male and female organs
and are self-fertilizing while the blossoms of the female varieties
contain only female organs and are dependent upon the pollen produced by
the male varieties for fertilization. For this reason it is necessary to
set plants of pistillate varieties in rows between rows of bisexuals of
the same fruiting season. The pollen is carried by the wind and bees and
in this manner, the blossoms of the pistillates become fertilized. Three
or four rows of pistillates may be set with only one row of bisexuals on
each side of the group.

Even with male varieties the crop may be increased and the quality of
the berries improved if several bisexuals are set in the same patch as
this provides an interchange of pollen which Nature intended.

Strawberry varieties do not mix or become crossed through the runners.
Everbearers may be set beside standard varieties, or any number of
different varieties may be grown side by side in a garden or field
without mixing unless the runners of one variety are allowed to spread
and take root in a row of another variety. Prevent this by restricting
runners of each variety to their respective rows.


Setting Plants

Plants should be pruned before they are set. This is done by cutting off
the tip ends of the roots, causing a callous to form where each root is
cut off. From these callouses, myriads of fine feeding roots start soon
after plants are set.

[Illustration: SIDE VIEW OF SECTION OF A ROW SHOWING PLANTS GROWN
SINGLE-HEDGE SYSTEM]

[Illustration: _Kellogg’s_

PREMIER

THE PRIZE-WINNER AND MONEY-MAKER]

[Illustration: Dr. Burrill

_The Million Dollar Strawberry_]

In setting plants, make a small “V” shaped opening in the soil, place
the roots straight down into this opening holding the crown slightly
above ground level and press the soil firmly against the roots.

Kellogg’s All-Metal Corrugated One-Piece Dibble (see page 63) is an
ideal tool for setting plants or an ordinary spade will answer the
purpose. With a dibble, the setting can be done by one person while it
requires two persons if a spade is used. One makes the opening with the
spade and presses the soil against the roots and the other places the
plant into the opening.

It is a very simple matter to set strawberry plants. Simply use the same
judgment as in setting vegetable or flower plants.


Cultivation

Cultivation should begin as soon as plants are set and when soil
conditions will permit, should be continued every week or ten days
throughout the entire growing season. Never cultivate when the soil is
wet but cultivate as soon as the ground can be worked after each rain.
Stir the soil to a depth of about two or three inches going as close to
the rows as possible and complete the cultivation by hoeing shallow
directly around the plants and in the rows where the cultivator teeth do
not reach.

Thorough cultivation prevents the formation of crust, keeps the ground
free from weeds and promotes plant growth. During dry periods repeated
shallow cultivation will prevent the escape of moisture and thereby
bring the plants through a long period of drouth in good condition. You
will experience very little loss from drouth if you put these
instructions into practice.


Filling In Vacancies

Every bare spot in your strawberry rows reduces your profits. If for any
reason an occasional plant should fail to grow, these vacant places
should be filled in as soon as possible to form unbroken rows thereby
making every square foot of your ground contribute its full share toward
the crop.

In spots where only one or two plants are missing, the vacancy may be
filled by allowing the adjoining plants to form the necessary runner
plants and layering them in the proper place. If however, the spot is of
considerable length, it is advisable to allow several plants to develop
runners and reset these runner plants in filling the vacancies. The
proper time for doing this work is in the early fall after a good
shower. In resetting the runner plants for this purpose, a clump of soil
should be taken up with the roots and care exercised not to disturb the
roots so that there will be no check in the growth of the plant.

If these simple instructions are carefully followed, you will have
perfectly filled rows.


Removing Blossoms and Runners

Plants will begin to blossom soon after they are set. The blossoms or
fruiting stalks of all standard varieties should be pinched or cut off
throughout the first year. This strengthens the plants by preventing
exhaustion which results from early pollen secretion and seed
production. It is very important that this be done as early as possible
to relieve the plants of unnecessary strain. This work is easily and
quickly done and is usually necessary only once or twice. (See also “The
Everbearers” Page 58.)

The runners also should be removed in accordance with the system you
wish to follow.


Spraying for Insects and Plant Diseases

For all insects which work upon the foliage either eating or folding the
leaves, pour sufficient water over three pounds powdered arsenate of
lead to make a paste and continue adding water until it becomes a creamy
solution. Pour this into fifty gallons of water and mix thoroughly
before spraying. For small gardens use at the rate of one ounce of the
powdered arsenate of lead to each gallon of water.

For rust or leaf-spot which may be detected by reddish, rusty-looking
spots which destroy the leaf cells, use Bordeaux mixture made as
follows:

Suspend a coarsely woven sack containing four pounds blue vitriol into
twenty-five gallons of water so that the vitriol in the sack will float
on the surface of the water. Put four pounds lump or hydrated lime into
a bucket and pour over it hot water, stirring until you have three
gallons of creamy mixture. Pour this into twelve gallons of water, then
combine this lime solution with the vitriol solution and the result is a
Bordeaux mixture known as 4-4-40 solution. Mix thoroughly before
spraying. This is a preventive rather than a cure and should be used at
the first appearance of any leaf-spot.

The presence of black ants indicates that aphides or root lice are
working upon the roots. Repeated cultivation and hoeing are the best
remedies.

White grubs which eat off the roots of plants causing them to wilt and
die can be destroyed only by digging about the roots of the wilted
plants and killing the grub. While this may not always save the affected
plant, it will prevent the grub from doing further damage. Late fall
plowing is the best preventive against root lice, white grubs, and all
other underground insects.

For mildew which causes the leaves to cup or curl and the leaf-stems to
become dark, use lime-sulphur at the rate of three gallons to sufficient
water to make fifty gallons. The lime-sulphur can be obtained from any
manufacturer of spray materials. It is put up in small cans and fifty
gallon barrels, and as it deteriorates with age or by freezing, enough
for one season only should be purchased when ordering.

For smaller areas, prepare at the above rate in amounts determined by
the area you have to spray.

These remedies may be applied with small hand-spray machines or large
power sprayers.

  (NOTE: Avoid spraying when plants are in blossom or while berries are
  ripening.)

Kellogg Pedigree Plants are sprayed frequently throughout the entire
growing season to insure absolute freedom from all insects and plant
diseases. Our plant fields are kept free from contamination of this
nature and every shipment which leaves our farm is likewise free from
insects and disease. We are giving the foregoing instructions for
spraying simply that you may be familiar with the proper course to
follow should any pest find its way into your field after plants are
set.

[Illustration: Strawberries, properly packed like those illustrated
above, sell at sight and at profitable prices.]

Kellogg Pedigree Plants themselves furnish as strong insurance as can be
had against the possibility of having to spray either for insects or
diseases.


Mulching

Mulching protects the plants during the winter, retains moisture in the
soil, keeps down weed growth during the fruiting season and keeps the
berries clean.

In cold climates mulching is necessary to protect the plants during
alternate freezing and thawing. If not mulched this expansion and
contraction breaks off the fine roots and greatly weakens the plants.

Any material such as oat, wheat or rye straw, marsh hay, shredded corn
fodder, or coarse stable manure makes ideal mulching, or leaves will
serve the purpose. It should be spread over the field or garden in the
early winter soon after the first freeze, covering the plants and ground
to a depth of about three inches. If stable manure is used it should be
applied thinner, spreading the strawy matter directly over the rows of
plants and the fine material between the rows.

In the spring as soon as the frost leaves the ground, remove the
mulching which lies directly over the rows to the spaces between the
rows. This permits the plants to grow without any obstruction.

In warm climates where freezing is very light, it is unnecessary to
cover the plants. Simply apply the mulching between the rows and under
the foliage, forming a bedding for the berries to ripen upon.

Mulching adds materially to the strawberry crop and gives the grower
bright, clean berries which are in big demand at fancy prices.


Picking

The proper method of picking strawberries is to leave about one inch of
the stem attached to the berry. This adds greatly to the appearance,
shipping and keeping qualities of the berries thereby making it possible
to obtain higher prices.

Unless absolutely necessary, never pick berries when the plants are wet
from dew or rain as berries picked when the vines are dry remain fresh
and retain their lustre much longer.

The berries should be graded by putting each grade into separate boxes
when picking. This eliminates the expense of re-handling and prevents
unnecessary bruising when packing.


Packing

The top layer in each box should be arranged in rows so as to present an
attractive appearance and make the top as level as possible. This
requires but little time and adds greatly to their appearance.

Long berries should be packed on their side while round or top-shaped
berries present the best appearance packed with the calyx and stem down.
The boxes should then be carefully placed into the crates.

[Illustration: A UNIQUE AND EFFECTIVE WAY TO ADVERTISE STRAWBERRIES

Placards posted in garages and at gasoline filling stations will be read
by hundreds of automobile owners with the result that you will find it
easy to dispose of your entire strawberry crop right at the patch. Try
this simple, inexpensive advertising.]

Berries of high quality packed in this manner will soon establish a
reputation for the grower which will greatly increase his profits.


Marketing

Your selling plan should be governed by local conditions. If you have a
large acreage, it is advisable to sell to grocers while if your acreage
is small and you can devote time, it is more profitable to sell direct
to the consumer. In either case you should adopt a trade-name for your
berries and label your crates and boxes so that the public will become
acquainted with your name and particular brand of berries. Large
placards should be placed in stores where your berries are for sale and
by also placarding garages and gasoline filling stations, many buyers
can be brought direct to your patch. Small advertisements in local
papers are also effective.

[Illustration: Peerless

_The_ Big, Solid Beauty]

[Illustration: SUPERB

the =BIG= EVERBEARING WONDER]


Preparing for Second Crop

Strawberry plants should not be permitted to fruit more than two years.

After the first crop has been picked, the foliage of standard varieties
should be mowed off and removed from the patch. The rows should then be
narrowed down by plowing a furrow from each side of the row leaving a
ridge or back-furrow between the rows. This should be worked down with
harrow and cultivator until the furrows have been filled and the ground
again made level. A spike-tooth harrow may be used but the teeth should
be set with a back slant so as not to tear out the plants when crossing
the rows. In small gardens this work may be done with spade and garden
rake. Continue working the ground until the surface is smooth. This will
slightly cover the crowns and the plants which remain in the rows will
soon come up through the fine covering of soil. Apply a top-dressing of
manure, continue to cultivate the same as the first year, and your
second crop will be fully as profitable as the first.

After fruiting the second year plow the plants under and plant the
ground to some other crop at least one year before again setting to
strawberries.


The Everbearers

The everbearers are so exceedingly productive and their fruiting season
covers such a long period that it is absolutely necessary that the soil
contain an abundance of plant-food and berry building material.

A heavy dressing of manure should be plowed under and thoroughly worked
into the soil before plants are set and a top dressing of manure applied
soon after setting, spreading the coarse material close around the
plants under the foliage to serve as mulching when they begin fruiting.

The season the plants are set, all blossoms should be removed from
Superb and Peerless until the latter part of June and from Perfection
and Progressive until the early part of July, after which they may be
allowed to fruit to full capacity. They should then fruit heavily until
freezing weather. The following year they will fruit abundantly from
early summer until late fall with the exception of a short rest period
during July.

The everbearers may be grown either hill, single-hedge or double-hedge
row system, but the hill system has proved the most profitable. It is
unnecessary to mow the foliage off the everbearers although this may be
done if desired the second year after the early summer crop has been
picked, when the plants enter their rest period. If this is done prepare
the bed the same as for standard varieties.

If these simple instructions are followed, the everbearers will prove
exceedingly profitable either for home use or market.


Crop Rotation

Crop rotation is very essential in strawberry growing. After plants have
fruited two years, they should be plowed under and the ground planted to
some other crop. This may be done as soon as they have finished their
second crop.

Cantaloupes make an ideal crop for rotation because they do not draw
heavily upon the fertility of the soil and their viny nature keeps the
soil mellow. Two years in strawberries, one year in cantaloupes then
back to strawberries, with a legume crop to rest and replenish the soil
once every five years, fertilizing each year, makes the very best
program of rotation for the strawberry grower.

Any of the legumes--clover, cow-peas, soy beans, velvet beans, vetch or
alfalfa, are ideal crops for rotation because they add great quantities
of humus and nitrogen to the soil. Vegetables or farm crops also may be
used to advantage as rotation crops.


Irrigation

Irrigation is an insurance policy on the crop, therefore, if you are
situated so that you can irrigate you will find it highly profitable to
do so. One can realize only through actual experience, the increased
profits which result from irrigation.

The two systems most generally used are the overhead or sprinkling
system and the ditch or gravity system. With the overhead system, the
water is applied in the form of a fine rain. With the ditch system,
shallow furrows or corrugations are made between the rows into which
water is run until the entire ground is wet. The water may be obtained
either from a well, lake, river or city supply. It may be applied during
the heat of the day if desired without any injury to the crop, however
if applied at night the evaporation is less. The ground should be
cultivated as soon after irrigation as conditions will permit.

We have in operation on the Kellogg Farm, 120 acres of Skinner Overhead
Irrigation which was selected by us as the best after a thorough testing
of several different systems. Our experience with Skinner Irrigation has
been so satisfactory that we recommend it to our customers with absolute
confidence that it will prove equally satisfactory and profitable both
for the small home garden and the large commercial strawberry grower.
For irrigating the small strawberry or vegetable garden or the lawn and
shrubbery, Kellogg’s Rain-Maker, manufactured for us by the Skinner
Irrigation Company, is unequalled as it furnishes positive insurance
against drouth. For description and price, see Page 63.

       *       *       *       *       *

  “In the spring of 1920 I set 1,250 Kellogg Pedigree Plants. The
  varieties were Kellogg’s Premier, Dr. Burrill, Magic Gem, Kellogg’s
  Prize and Kellogg’s Big Late. Plants made excellent growth until
  August, when a severe hail storm which caused over $50,000.00 damage
  in our County, stripped their foliage giving them a serious set-back.
  In spite of this, they produced 600 quarts of fine berries this season
  which brought 25 and 30 cents per quart with ready sale. I follow the
  Kellogg Way and find it most profitable. I intend to order 1,200 more
  Kellogg Plants in time to be sure of getting them next spring.”

  James C. Tarrance, Kansas.




Kellogg Strawberry Dainties

_Compiled by Mrs. F. E. (C. J.) Beatty_


NOTE: In the following recipes (with the exception of uncooked sun
preserves), any light colored syrup may be substituted for sugar by
using equal weights of berries and syrup and adding one cup sugar to
each quart syrup. If boiling is required, boil slowly.


  Serving Strawberries in the South

  Folks ’way down South eat strawberries in wholesale lots and make them
  up in many tasteful ways. A favorite breakfast dish in the South is to
  sprinkle hot waffles with sugar and then spread over them plenty of
  freshly mashed strawberries. Another good dish is hot toast moistened
  with butter and cream and then covered with mashed or cut berries.

  The pie-eating members of the family will enjoy the Southern way of
  making strawberry custard pie. Make your favorite recipe for custard
  pie with milk, eggs, sugar and grated nutmeg, but leave out the
  strawberry juice or any acid flavoring; then, just before serving, cut
  some berries in half and spread them thickly over the top of the pie,
  and cover with a meringue flavored with lemon juice.


  Strawberry Tarts

  Line tart tins with nice puff paste, filling with plum pits, corn or
  some such thing so they will keep their shape while baking. When done,
  fill with sweetened strawberries and heap up with whipped cream.


  Fancy Shortcake

  Pour one cupful boiling water over two cups sugar, boil for five
  minutes, then cool. Separate the whites from yolks of four eggs and
  beat the yolks until thick; then add the syrup to them, beating
  constantly; now add two cups flour sifted with one and one-half
  teaspoons baking powder; add a pinch of salt and one teaspoon lemon
  juice, then fold in the whites, beaten stiff and dry; spread in two
  round layer cake tins, bake in a quick oven. When done, remove to warm
  platter; spread with fine sugar and crushed berries. Place on top a
  thick meringue of beaten egg whites seasoned with sugar and arrange
  berries about the cake.


  Bottling Sun-Preserved Strawberries

  Strawberries hold the color and shape better when preserved in the
  sun. Weigh the fruit; to each pound allow three-quarters of a pound of
  sugar; put a layer of sugar, a layer of fruit, another layer of sugar
  on a large granite or stoneware platter, cover with glass and stand in
  the hot sun. As the sun cools toward evening bring them in and put
  them out again the next day. Lift each berry carefully with a fork and
  arrange them neatly in tumblers or bottles. Boil the syrup for five or
  six minutes, pour it over the fruit, cover with the glass and let them
  stand all night in a cold place. Next morning cover the jars with
  melted paraffine, over which stretch tissue paper and fasten it down
  with white of egg. When the covers are dry brush them over with water.


  Strawberry Cream

  Mash one quart berries with one cup powdered sugar and rub through
  fine sieve; dissolve one and one-half ounces gelatine in one pint
  sweet milk; strain and add one pint whipped cream and the berry juice.
  Pour into a wet mould and set on the ice to form.


  Strawberry Jam

  Take equal parts of berries and granulated sugar, mash them together,
  put into a preserving kettle and cook for more than half an hour. Put
  into jars and when cold, seal.


  Strawberry Jelly

  Add one-third currant or rhubarb juice to the strawberry juice before
  cooking and proceed as for other jellies.


  Canned Strawberries

  For every quart of fresh, firm berries allow one teacupful of
  granulated sugar. Add the sugar in layers and allow the fruit to stand
  covered for an hour. Bring slowly to the boiling point and let simmer
  two minutes. Do not stir the fruit and when done dip carefully into
  cans and seal.


  Sun Preserves

  To three quarts of cleaned berries use two quarts of sugar. Make a
  thick syrup of the sugar and when it is boiling up like taffy, turn
  the berries in and after they begin boiling, let them boil briskly for
  twenty minutes. Turn out into platters or shallow dishes, putting just
  a layer of berries and plenty of juice on each dish. Set them in the
  hot sun until evening, then bring in, let stand until morning and put
  into clean (and cold) jars or glasses and seal. Any surplus juice may
  be put out in the sun until it turns to jelly.

  If there is no sun or it is too cold, leave the preserves in the
  plates for two or three days or more and they will thicken and be just
  as good.


  Strawberry Ice Cream

  Wash, pick over and hull two boxes berries. Sprinkle with two cups
  sugar, cover and let stand two hours. Mash and squeeze through
  cheesecloth; then add three pints thin cream and a few grains salt.
  Freeze, using three parts finely crushed ice to one part rock salt.


  Strawberry Sponge

  Beat up one cupful of sugar with one-half cupful of butter, add two
  well beaten eggs, two-thirds cupful of milk, two teaspoons of baking
  powder and enough flour to make a stiff batter. Bake in a buttered
  ring mold in a moderate oven and turn out when ready. Fill the center
  with sugared strawberries and serve with whipped and sweetened cream.


  Strawberry Gelatine

  One quart berries, one-half box gelatine, one and one-half cups water,
  one cup sugar, juice of one lemon, beaten whites of four eggs. Soak
  the gelatine in one-half cup of water; mash the berries and add half
  the sugar to them; boil the remainder of sugar and the cup of water
  gently twenty minutes; rub the berries through a hair sieve; add
  gelatine to boiling syrup; take from the fire and add berry juice;
  place the bowl in pan of ice water and beat with egg beater five
  minutes, add beaten whites and beat until it begins to thicken. Pour
  into well moistened moulds and set on ice. Serve with cream.


  Strawberry Surprise

  Line a pie plate with a good crust and fill with strawberries. Sweeten
  to taste and cover with a sponge batter made as follows: Beat yolks of
  eggs until lemon colored, add sugar and beat until creamy, then add
  flour sifted three times and fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake in a
  moderate oven. When cool, cover the top with sweetened whipped cream.

  Ingredients: 1 quart strawberries, 3 eggs, pie crust, ½ cupful sugar,
  ½ cupful flour, ½ pint sweet cream.


  Plain Shortcake

  One quart sifted flour, one-half cup butter and lard mixed, two
  teaspoons baking powder, sweet milk enough to make a soft dough.
  Divide into three equal parts, roll out, spread melted butter on each
  and place on top of each other and bake.

[Illustration: _A Trio of Kellogg Strawberry Dainties_]

[Illustration: _Strawberry Shrub_

A Healthful, Delicious and Refreshing Beverage]


  Strawberry Jelly

  One quart of strawberries, one large cup of white sugar, juice of one
  lemon, one-third of a package of Cox’s gelatine soaked in one cup of
  cold water, one pint of boiling water; mash the berries to a pulp and
  strain through coarse muslin. Mix the sugar and lemon juice with the
  soaked gelatine, stir up well and pour over them the boiling water.
  Stir until clear; strain through a flannel bag; add the strawberry
  juice; strain again without shaking or pressing the bag. Wet a mold
  with cylinder in center in cold water; fill it and set it in ice to
  form. Turn out upon a cold dish; fill with whipped cream made quite
  sweet with powdered sugar and serve at once. It is very fine.


  Oranged Strawberries

  Put a layer of strawberries into a deep dish, cover thickly with
  pulverized sugar; then a layer of berries and so on until all are
  used. Pour over them orange juice in the proportion of three oranges
  to a quart of berries. Let stand for an hour and just before serving
  sprinkle with crushed ice.


  Strawberry Blanc-Mange

  Crush two teacups of very ripe berries with a cup of granulated sugar.
  Press through a fine strainer to remove the seeds. Beat the whites of
  four eggs so stiff that the dish may be inverted without spilling the
  contents. Add gradually one-half cup of powdered sugar. Next beat in
  the juice by degrees and continue until the mass becomes so stiff it
  stands in ragged peaks. Serve with a soft custard made of the unused
  yolks, cup and a half of milk and four tablespoons of sugar cooked in
  a double boiler until thick as cream. Pour custard into a pretty dish
  and slip the blanc-mange upon it while custard is hot.


  Frosted Strawberries

  Beat the white of an egg for a minute or so. Dip berries one by one
  into this, roll in powdered sugar and let dry.


  Strawberry Mousse

  To a pint of double cream add the juice of a lemon and a cup of
  strawberry preserve. Beat until thick to the bottom of the bowl. Have
  ready a three-pint mould lined with lemon, orange or pineapple
  sherbet. Put the mousse mixture into the center and cover with more
  sherbet. Adjust the cover over paper and pack in equal parts of ice
  and salt. Let stand about two hours. Lining the mould with sherbet may
  be omitted, but it is a great improvement to the dish. Thus lined, it
  is removed from the mould with ease.


  Strawberry Pie

  Make a good crust, not too rich, for the undercrust and one more rich
  for the upper. Fill the pie well with berries, sprinkle generously
  with flour, then the sugar. Put no water in the pie, but dip the
  finger tips into water and wet the undercrust all around the edge,
  running the fingers around until a sort of paste is formed. Then put
  on upper crust and press down firmly. Do not bake too quickly.


  Strawberry Shrub

  Pour three quarts of best cider vinegar over nine pounds of fine, ripe
  strawberries, let it stand for twenty-four hours, then bring to a boil
  and strain. Add a pint and a half of sugar for every pint of juice,
  boil together five minutes, then strain again. Put up in self-sealing
  cans. A tablespoonful or two added to a glass of water makes a
  delicious and refreshing drink.


  Strawberry and Rice Pudding

  Boil one-half cupful of rice in milk until done. When nearly cool stir
  in gently, fine ripe strawberries. Sweeten to taste. Serve with a nice
  custard or whipped cream.


  Fruit Punch

  Sugar syrup, rather than sugar in a crude form, is preferable for
  sweetening any kind of beverage and is especially desirable when the
  foundation of the beverage is a fruit juice or a combination of
  several varieties of fruit juices.

  Boil three pints of water and three cups of sugar twenty minutes. When
  cold add a pint of strawberry juice, a cup of orange juice, juice of
  three lemons and one quart or more of water.


  Strawberry Tapioca

  Cover one cup pearl tapioca with a pint of cold water and soak two
  hours. Put it over the fire, add one pint of water and sugar to taste.
  Cook about thirty minutes or until clear. Pour while hot over a quart
  of stemmed strawberries and put by to cool. Serve with powdered sugar
  and cream.


  Strawberry Frappe

  One quart of fine, ripe fruit, put through a press, and one pound of
  sugar; let stand until the sugar is dissolved, then add a quart of
  water and freeze until thick, but not stiff.


  Strawberry Sherbet

  Boil together one quart of water and one pint of sugar fifteen
  minutes. Add a teaspoonful of softened gelatine and when cold strain
  over one pint of strawberry juice and the juice of a lemon. Freeze in
  the usual manner.


  To Can Strawberries

  Wash and stem the berries. Fill into jars, jostling down but not
  enough to break the berries, (have the jar on folded cloth), and when
  filled, screw on the lid, (partially). Set in a vessel deep enough to
  come above jars and have board or rack in bottom, then fill almost to
  top of jars with cold water. Watch closely and let boil one minute, by
  the clock. Then lift out and fill the jars with a rather thin hot
  syrup which has been prepared; put on hot rubbers and seal tight.


  Strawberry Sauce

  One-third cup of butter, one cup powdered sugar, one teaspoon lemon or
  orange extract. Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and flavoring.
  To this add one cup strawberry pulp and the lightly beaten white of
  one egg. Chill thoroughly.


  Strawberry Sauce

  Cream together butter and powdered sugar. Add flavor and when ready to
  serve mix in one or two crushed berries to tint the sauce and a
  generous quantity of hulled berries,--sliced.


  Strawberry Jam

  Crush berries and add almost an equal weight of sugar. Put mixture in
  preserving kettle and let come to boiling point. Stir well and when
  whole mass is boiling, let boil twenty or twenty-five minutes. Then
  stir into this mixture one tablespoon of cornstarch to every gallon of
  jam. Wet the starch with enough cold water to thin it good, add to
  boiling jam and continue boiling for five minutes. Then seal in jars.

  NOTE: I have found Kellogg’s Delicious (The Strawberry That Satisfies)
  a splendid variety;--unsurpassed for canning, preserving and immediate
  table use. This variety is a very heavy producer and I recommend it
  with positive assurance that its berries, whether served in any of the
  foregoing recipes or in any other manner, will give you a new and
  lasting impression of how deliciously satisfying strawberries can be.

  [Illustration: Mrs. F. E. Beatty]


Kellogg’s Rain-Maker

You don’t need to gaze wistfully at the sky and wish for rain if you
have Kellogg’s Rain-Maker. Solves the watering problem for garden, lawn
or shrubbery as it is light and portable (weighs only 25 lbs.) and is
easily moved wherever you need rain. It is manufactured for us by the
Skinner Irrigation Company of Troy, Ohio, and embodies on a smaller
scale, the same principle of Skinner Irrigation which we use exclusively
on the Kellogg Farm and which we have found most desirable and
efficient. Consists of two nine-foot sections of ¾ inch galvanized pipe
fitted with nine of the famous Skinner System Silver Stream nozzles.
Attaches to water supply with hose and at ordinary city pressure
irrigates a strip 50 x 18 feet. Supported by three pointed iron rods.
Nothing to get out of order--lasts a lifetime.

[Illustration]

We use and recommend Kellogg’s Rain-Maker. Make certain having yours
when you need it by ordering today. After using the first time, you
wouldn’t part with it at any price if you couldn’t get another. Weight
packed for shipment, about 30 pounds. In ordering, please specify
whether you prefer shipment by Express or Freight.

=Price only $11.00 each f. o. b. Troy, Ohio.=


Hearts of Gold Cantaloupe

Enormously productive,--thrives everywhere. Melons are of uniformly
supreme quality, round, medium-size, with thick, golden flesh, small
seed-cavity and thin, perfectly netted rind. Sells readily at highest
prices on all markets.

We quote genuine Hearts of Gold seed,--grown, packed and shipped direct
to our customers by Roland Morrill, the originator of this famous melon,
at the following prices:

=Seed for planting one acre, $5.00; one-half acre, $3.00; one-fourth
acre, $1.75; family garden, $1.00; trial packet, 50 cents. (Postpaid.)=


[Illustration: WIZARD TRADE =BRAND= MARK PULVERIZED Sheep Manure]

We use and recommend this reliable brand of concentrated, Pulverized
Sheep Manure. Ideal for strawberries, vegetables and flowers. A whole
wagon-load of manure in a bag. For full information regarding use and
rate of application of Pulverized Sheep Manure, see “Soil Preparation
and Fertilizers,” Pages 47 and 50.

[Illustration: WIZARD --BRAND-- SHEEP MANURE]

Send us your order today for enough to last through the growing season.
In ordering, please specify whether you prefer shipment by Express or
Freight. =Price, $2.25 per 100 pounds, f. o. b. Chicago, Ill. Prices in
ton lots quoted upon request.=


[Illustration: BIGGER CROPS-- _and_ GREATER PROFITS

Your gardening success, whether with several acres or in a small
back-yard, demands that plants must be properly set. Disappointing,
unprofitable crops express with unfailing certainty Nature’s disapproval
of careless, slip-shod transplanting. Avoid disappointment and enjoy the
satisfaction resulting from bigger, more profitable crops

  _By Planting With_

  KELLOGG’S
  All-Metal
  CORRUGATED
  One-Piece
  DIBBLE

_The Practical, Efficient Plant-Setting Tool_

Just the tool for setting your vegetable, fruit and flower plants.
Light, strong and durable. Will last indefinitely. Every home and market
gardener should have one or more of these profitable money-savers.

Price Only 75 Cents Each--3 for $1.50

Delivered, all transportation charges prepaid

_for_ HOME _and_ MARKET GARDENERS]

[Illustration: Kellogg’s

BIG WONDER

_A Wonderful Strawberry_]

[Illustration]




KELLOGG’S 1922 PRICE-LIST


(NOTE: These prices supersede and cancel all previous quotations and are
for acceptance not later than May 25, 1922)


INSTRUCTIONS FOR USING PRICE-LIST

(_See also paragraph below entitled “Kellogg’s Free Delivery”_)

Beneath the variety names in each column below are complete scales of
prices of 25 to 1,000 plants. The price which appears opposite any given
quantity of plants applies separately to each variety in that column and
not to a combination of varieties. For example; 200 plants of any one
variety in column 3 are priced at $3.20, but should you order 100 plants
each of more than one variety listed in that column, the price of each
100 plants will be $2.00. Regardless of how many varieties you may
order, figure the price of each separately the same as though you were
ordering that one variety only. 500 or more plants of any one variety
are sold at the 1,000 rate. A 5 per cent discount is allowed on orders
amounting to $50.00 to $100.00, and 10 per cent discount on orders
amounting to more than $100.00.

PLEASE WRITE VERY PLAINLY AND BE SURE THAT YOUR ORDER IS CORRECTLY MADE
OUT

  +------------------+------------------+----------------------+
  |     COLUMN 1     |     COLUMN 2     |       COLUMN 3       |
  |Standard Varieties|Standard Varieties|  Standard Varieties  |
  +------------------+------------------+----------------------+
  |Aroma B           |Gibson (B)        |Kellogg’s Premier (B) |
  |Haverland (P)     |Glen Mary (B)     |Dr. Burrill (B)       |
  |Senator Dunlap (B)|Wm. Belt (B)      |Magic Gem (B)         |
  |Warfield (P)      |                  |Kellogg’s Prize (P)   |
  |                  |                  |Kellogg’s Big Late (P)|
  |                  |                  |Kellogg’s             |
  |                  |                  |Big Wonder (B)        |
  |                  |                  |Sionilli (B)          |
  |  25 plants $  .60|  25 plants $  .70|   25 plants $  .85   |
  |  50 plants   1.00|  50 plants   1.05|   50 plants   1.25   |
  |  75 plants   1.25|  75 plants   1.40|   75 plants   1.65   |
  | 100 plants   1.50| 100 plants   1.70|  100 plants   2.00   |
  | 125 plants   1.65| 125 plants   1.95|  125 plants   2.30   |
  | 150 plants   1.80| 150 plants   2.20|  150 plants   2.60   |
  | 175 plants   1.95| 175 plants   2.45|  175 plants   2.90   |
  | 200 plants   2.10| 200 plants   2.70|  200 plants   3.20   |
  | 225 plants   2.30| 225 plants   2.95|  225 plants   3.50   |
  | 250 plants   2.50| 250 plants   3.20|  250 plants   3.80   |
  | 275 plants   2.65| 275 plants   3.45|  275 plants   4.10   |
  | 300 plants   2.85| 300 plants   3.70|  300 plants   4.40   |
  | 325 plants   3.00| 325 plants   3.90|  325 plants   4.60   |
  | 350 plants   3.20| 350 plants   4.10|  350 plants   4.85   |
  | 375 plants   3.35| 375 plants   4.30|  375 plants   5.10   |
  | 400 plants   3.50| 400 plants   4.50|  400 plants   5.35   |
  | 425 plants   3.65| 425 plants   4.65|  425 plants   5.50   |
  | 450 plants   3.75| 450 plants   4.75|  450 plants   5.65   |
  | 475 plants   3.90| 475 plants   4.90|  475 plants   5.80   |
  | 500 plants   4.00| 500 plants   5.00|  500 plants   6.00   |
  |1000 plants   8.00|1000 plants  10.00| 1000 plants  12.00   |
  +------------------+------------------+----------------------+

  +-----------------------+---------------------------+
  |        COLUMN 4       |         COLUMN 5          |
  |   Standard Varieties  |        Everbearers        |
  +-----------------------+---------------------------+
  |Kellogg’s Delicious (B)| Peerless (B)              |
  |Kellogg’s Marvel (B)   | Progressive (B)           |
  |                       | Superb (B)                |
  |                       | (_See prices of Kellogg’s |
  |                       | Perfection, Everbearer    |
  |                       | beneath scale of prices._)|
  |                       |                           |
  |                       |                           |
  |    25 plants $ 2.80   |     25 plants $ 1.75      |
  |    50 plants   4.30   |     50 plants   2.60      |
  |    75 plants   5.40   |     75 plants   3.40      |
  |   100 plants   6.70   |    100 plants   4.15      |
  |   125 plants   7.70   |    125 plants   4.75      |
  |   150 plants   8.70   |    150 plants   5.40      |
  |   175 plants   9.70   |    175 plants   6.00      |
  |   200 plants  10.70   |    200 plants   6.65      |
  |   225 plants  11.70   |    225 plants   7.25      |
  |   250 plants  12.70   |    250 plants   7.90      |
  |   275 plants  13.70   |    275 plants   8.50      |
  |   300 plants  14.70   |    300 plants   9.15      |
  |   325 plants  15.50   |    325 plants   9.65      |
  |   350 plants  16.30   |    350 plants  10.15      |
  |   375 plants  17.10   |    375 plants  10.65      |
  |   400 plants  17.90   |    400 plants  11.15      |
  |   425 plants  18.40   |    425 plants  11.50      |
  |   450 plants  18.90   |    450 plants  11.85      |
  |   475 plants  19.50   |    475 plants  12.20      |
  |   500 plants  20.00   |    500 plants  12.50      |
  |  1000 plants  40.00   |   1000 plants  25.00      |
  +-----------------------+---------------------------+


KELLOGG’S PERFECTION EVERBEARER

25 plants, $2.50; 50, $4.50; 75, $6.50; 100, $8.00. More than 100
plants, at the rate of $8.00 per 100.

      KELLOGG STRAWBERRY GARDENS
  Kellogg’s Junior Garden      $4.50
  Kellogg’s Cash Prize Garden   6.50
  Kellogg’s Big Four Garden     7.00
  Kellogg’s Everbearing Garden  9.00

         HEARTS OF GOLD CANTALOUPE SEED
                  For planting:
  One acre       $5.00    One-fourth acre  $1.75
  One-half acre   3.00    Family Garden     1.00
               Trial packet     50c

Kellogg’s All-Metal, Corrugated, One-Piece Dibble, 75 cents each. Three
for $1.50.


KELLOGG’S FREE DELIVERY

The prices quoted above on Kellogg Pedigree Plants, Kellogg Strawberry
Gardens, Hearts of Gold Cantaloupe Seed and Kellogg’s All-Metal,
Corrugated, One-Piece Dibble, include delivery to your nearest Express
or Post Office as we prepay all Transportation charges on these items.
We reserve the right however, to ship either by Express or Parcel Post.
We do not prepay Duty on Canadian Shipments. This must be paid by the
customer when plants arrive at Custom House.

=Kellogg’s Rain-Maker, $11.00 each, f. o. b. Troy, Ohio. Weight packed
for shipment, about 30 pounds.=

=Wizard Brand Pulverized Sheep Manure, $2.25 per 100 pounds f. o. b.
Chicago, Ill. Prices in ton lots quoted upon request.=

(_When ordering Kellogg’s Rain-Maker or Pulverized Sheep Manure, please
state whether you prefer shipment by Express or Freight._)




Instructions for Ordering and General Information

  =To avoid misunderstanding and unnecessary correspondence, please read
  this page carefully before making out your order=


VERY IMPORTANT

Be sure your order is correctly made out by following closely the
instructions given on this page. Always sign your name the same and
please write plainly as this assists us in giving orders and letters
prompt attention.


WE DO NOT EMPLOY AGENTS

Beware of anyone claiming to be our agent. Genuine Kellogg Pedigree
Plants can be obtained only by sending your order direct to R. M.
Kellogg Company, Three Rivers, Mich.


WHEN TO ORDER

Your order should be sent to us as early as possible. The earlier it is
received, the more certain you will be to get your choice of varieties.


OUR ACKNOWLEDGMENT

We acknowledge receipt of all orders promptly. If you do not receive
acknowledgment within a reasonable time, write us,--giving full
description of your order and remittance.


CORRESPONDENCE

If you have occasion to write us regarding order after it has been
booked, always refer to the order number.


ADDITIONAL ORDERS

Additional plants may be ordered at any time but if an additional order
is received after April 1st, it will be booked and shipped separately.
Orders are not subject to cancellation and we cannot change any order
after April 1st.


ORDER IN MULTIPLES OF 25 PLANTS

Kellogg Pedigree Plants are accurately counted and tied into bunches of
25 plants, each bunch containing a label giving the name and sex of the
variety. We do not furnish less than 25 plants of any variety and plants
of each variety must be ordered in exact multiples of 25; that is, 25,
50, 75, 100 and so on.


CHANGE OF ADDRESS

Advise us promptly of change of address, giving both your old and new
addresses.


OUR TERMS

With the single exception of Public Institutions, we do not ship plants
until full payment has been received. Please do not ask us to ship C. O.
D. as we positively cannot deviate from this rule. If your order amounts
to more than $5.00 and you cannot conveniently remit full amount when
ordering, a remittance of one-third will reserve the plants but the
balance must be remitted not later than April 1st. Full payment should
accompany orders amounting to less than $5.00 and all orders which are
sent to us after March 15th.


HOW TO SEND MONEY

If possible, remittance should be made by Postoffice or Express Money
Order or by Bank Draft. If this is not convenient send registered letter
or personal check, adding 10 cents for exchange if you remit by check.


SPRING SHIPMENTS ONLY

It is advisable to have your plants shipped as early as possible. We
begin digging and shipping in the spring as soon as weather permits
(usually about April 1st) and continue until May 25th. We positively
cannot ship at any other time of the year. If you specify shipping date,
we shall follow your instructions as closely as possible, otherwise we
shall use our own judgment.


SUBSTITUTION

We seldom find it necessary to substitute but if, when it comes time to
ship your order, we are unable to furnish certain varieties you have
ordered, may we substitute in their place varieties of equal or greater
value? It is very important that you answer “Yes” or “No” in proper
place on Order Sheet, naming second choice of varieties if substitution
will meet with your approval. If you do not indicate your wish, we shall
assume that you wish us to use our judgment. We shall not substitute,
however, unless necessary.


CLAIMS

Any claim for mistakes or adjustment must be made immediately upon
receipt of plants. In reporting any discrepancy please state the number
of plants of each variety, also number of crates or packages received
and date received. This will assist us in making a prompt investigation.

  _Our Guaranty_

  _With our careful methods of growing, labeling and packing plants,
  mistakes are practically impossible. We therefore guarantee Kellogg
  Pedigree Plants to be true to name and free from insects and fungous
  diseases, however in no event will we be responsible for more than the
  amount paid us for the plants._

  _Kellogg Pedigree Plants are delivered to the Transportation Company
  in first-class condition and thereupon our responsibility ceases. We
  cannot and will not be in any way responsible for the crop, for loss
  or delay after plants are turned over to the Transportation Company,
  or for inability to fill any order on account of shortage of plants,
  conditions resulting from an act of Nature, labor situation or any
  other cause beyond our control. It is mutually understood and agreed
  between the customer and ourselves that all orders are placed and
  accepted in accordance with the terms and conditions herein provided._

       *       *       *       *       *

Don’t overlook ordering Kellogg’s Marvel, (The Marvel of Beauty and
Productiveness) and Kellogg’s Delicious, (The Strawberry that
Satisfies). These two varieties will give you something extraordinary in
Strawberries.

[Illustration: “KELLOGG’S MARVEL” STRAWBERRIES

_The Marvel of Beauty and Productiveness_]




  Transcriber’s Notes


  The spelling used in the printed work has been retained. Sion-illi and
  Sionilli both occur in the original work, and have not been
  standardised, nor have other inconsistently hyphenated words.

  This publication is best viewed as the illustrated browser-version,
  available at www.gutenberg.org.

  The Kellogg Trade Mark illustration (“THOROUGHBRED PEDIGREE--TRADE
  MARK--STRAWBERRY PLANTS”) occurs in many illustrations, but has been
  transcribed just once (on the front cover).

  Changes made:

  The page header (“KELLOGG’S GREAT CROPS OF STRAWBERRIES _and_ HOW _to_
  GROW THEM _the_ KELLOGG WAY”) has been moved from page six to page
  three, and deleted from subsequent pages on which it occurs.

  Some minor obvious typographical errors have been corrected silently.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Kellogg's Great Crops of Strawberries, by 
R. M. Kellogg Co.

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STRAWBERRIES ***

***** This file should be named 57123-0.txt or 57123-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/7/1/2/57123/

Produced by MFR, Harry Lamé and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

